# R Core Initiatives Meeting

## Present

**R Core**: Martyn Plummer, Michael Lawrence, Robert Gentleman, Luke Tierney  
**R Foundation**: Gabriela de Queiroz, Henrik Bengtsson, Hadley Wickham, Jenny Bryan, Di Cook, Bettina Grün  
**Forwards**: Heather Turner, Emily Dodwell, Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel, Joyce Robbins, Ritwik Mitra  
R-Ladies: Laura Ación (on leave), Yanina Bellini Saibene  
**MiR**: Silvia Canelon  
**General R community**: Kara Woo, Gabriel Becker, Maya Gans  
**RUG Buenos Aires**: Elio Campitelli, Germán Rosati  
**RConsortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: Samantha Toet  

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. Update from R Core

    [ML]: Still yet to have a focussed discussion on the issue. Have started to talk about moving to GitHub. Need to figure out how to initiate it.
    [MP]: Summer hiatus, not much discussion since useR! panel.
    
4. Proposed ideas to work on:
   (Last time, setup a repo under forwards GitHub organisation to start planning activities: https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution). Each proposal will be brief described (by the proposer if present), then will do a straw poll on whether to discuss more today, postpone until next time, or postpone indefinitely.

    - (Maya Gans) R Dev Guide https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/1
        - Starting Bookdown heavily influenced by Python Developer Guide
        - WIP at https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide / https://forwards.github.io/rdevguide/r-core-developers-guide.html
        - Building R locally from a novice's perspective, then tackling an easier bug
        - Hopefully identify expert blindspots (e.g. just getting R to build took a couple of weeks)
        - Currently making notes; looking for help to make sure notes correct/complete/etc
        - Currently focussed on mac; particularly keen for windows helpers
        - R-core generally supportive of the idea
        - Michael Chirico happy to help
        - Straw poll: ~90% vote to start now
    - (Laura Acion) Dev stream at useR! 2021 https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/4
        - useR! 2021 planning underway at the moment, striving to make a global conference
        - still early in planning process (conf in July 2021)
        - want to start thinking about dev stream (like dev day 2020 that did not happen due to COVID)
        - [GB]: would love to share experience/skills working with R core
        - [ML]: could have a few people at different points on the ramp
        - Straw poll: roughly 50-50 start now/postpone until next time
        - [DC]: what are the challenges?
        - [LA]: need a code of conduct
        - [HT]: has to be virtual
        - [HW]: tidyverse has decided against virtual dev day due to potential for setup/computer/github issues that people can run into
        - [LT]: not as constrained in terms of time (e.g. useR! spread over weeks)
        - [GB]: bioconductor workshops started providing docker images
        - [JR, via chat]: It could be very informal. There are surely plenty of people here who could talk off the cuff about R Core and we'd learn a lot.
    - (Heather Turner) Online mentoring forum https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/5
        - Currently no natural place for general development discussion
        - Could set up a zulip instance, as the python community did
        - [HT] seed members would be people from this group; but open to anyone interested. "Stupid" questions are explicitly allowed.
        - [HT] also happy to use slack; but would have to be separate slack from Forwards one
        - Free slack loses messages after some time; we could pay for slack, but it's relatively expensive ($5 / user / month), but there are open source/education discounts (https://slack.com/intl/en-ar/help/articles/204368833-Slack-for-Nonprofits)
        - [DC] How do we make sure that we get critical mass? How do we get R core folks to contribute their expertise
        - [JR, from chat]: What about GitHub issues?
        - [MCR, from chat]: I think GitHub issues are hard to ask the questions that one might feel might be too trivial questions because they're tracked a bit too publicly and bit too attached to the person compared to Slack-type chat
        - [ST, from chat]: a FAQ?
        - [ML] another potential role is curator, someone could collect and distribute particularly good questions/answers
        - [EC] There are some StackOverflow clones/alternatives: https://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/2267/are-there-any-clones-alternatives-for-running-a-stack-exchange-style-qa-site
        - [MC, from chat] FAQ and/or a way to mark "this is a great Q or A that we don't want to lose"
        - [SC, from chat] Potential for Slack/GitHub integrations to be useful: https://github.com/integrations/slack
        - [HT] need to do a bit more research to possible platforms
        - Straw poll: ~40% start now, ~60% postpone until next time. 
        - HT: Will prepare a poll of options to discuss next time
        - [DC, from chat]: I think its a great idea, and wouldn't like to see this go away HT - don't want to have given the wrong impression!
    - (Jenny Bryan) Evaluation of development platform https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/6
        - Renewing R core and changing composition is very tied up with the techology and processes used for contribution
        - Issue links to blog post that discusses how that played out for Python
        - Concrete goal: prepare a 1-2 page document laying out what would need to be studied in order to make these changes. What are the concerns? What are the roadblocks? What experiments would need to be performed?
        - Obviously any changes would need to take place over a long period of time, and need to establish if this is something that R core will even do.
        - [ML]: idea has been raised within R-core, would be good to continuity
        - Is there data that could be used to convince R-core? e.g. vast majority of newly submitted CRAN packages with URLs have a github url.
        - [ML]: would be good to have some sort of incremental plan
        - Straw poll: ~90% start now
    - (Saranjeet Kaur) Tweag Fellowship https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/2 and (Emma Rand) Better Scientific Software Fellowship https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/7
        - [HT, since neither SK or ER present] two fellowships available to work on open source projects; both have deadlines in September. SK ready and willing to submit proposal for Tweag; BSSw needs US-based candidate.
        - [DC] BSSw & TWEAG Deadline Wednesday, Sept 30, 2020
        - [HW] would also be fundable by R consortium, or possible R foundation
        - [MCR] the Dev Guide would be a possibility if there is a possible person who would be suitable to get funded 
        - [HT] Will recommend SK to submit proposal to Tweag on Dev Guide; will let ER know that we're not ready with idea/candidate for BSSw, so opportunity can be passed on to Forwards teaching team.
5. AOB
    - [HB]: would like to hear from R-core if moving to git is even feasible? One member is strongly against it; but possible to use mirrors (e.g. https://github.com/r-devel/r-svn) so that git-friendly folks can use it.
7. Next steps
    - Follow/express interest in Github issues that you're interested in - if you're part of Forwards/a collaborator on https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution you can allocate yourself to the issue. Email rowforwards@gmail.com if you want to be added as a collaborator.
    - Next meeting? Will arrange meetings monthly alternating between times that are India/Europe-friendly (as kick-off meeting, 15:00 UTC) and Australia/New Zealand friendly (as today, 21:00 UTC).
    
    
