# R Core Initiatives Meeting 2020-11-10

## Present

**R Core**: Martyn Plummer, Luke Tierney  
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner, Henrik Bengtsson  
**Forwards**: Becca Wilson, gwynn sturdevant  
**RConsortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:  
**General R community**: Laura Ación, Gabriel Becker, Silvia Canelón, Kara Woo  
**R User Groups**: Elio Campitelli  

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. Update on issues
    - R Dev Guide, Tweag Fellowship
        - Proposal was accepted for first round, now need to go through second round (should know in next week or so)
        - Work wouldn't start until January
        - https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/2
    - Dev stream at useR! 2021
        - No news, but Gabriel has joined useR! 2021 Slack, so we can further the discussion there
    - Online mentoring forum
        - Slack has been set up, invite will be shared with the email list (only this group for now). 
        - Proposed posting guide and coc: https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/pull/8.
            - Plan to create a landing page somewhere that will show people the coc and posting guide before joining the Slack
        - Admins
            - Need to have maybe 3 volunteers
            - Handling coc reports will be one responsibility of admins
            - Will admins be able to remove messages? Yes
                - May want to mention in coc that messages that violate the coc may be removed
            - Kara to check about sharing some coc enforcement materials
        - Ideas for channels/ways to engage people? Currently #core-dev-help, #core-outreach, #welcome.
            - #work-out-loud: place for people currently working on contributions to share what they're doing
            - #patches-for-review
            - Channel to highlight issues that need work
                - Possible integration with bugzilla
    - Evaluation of development platform (bridge to git/GitHub/GitLab)
        - No news
        - Low probability development will move from svn to git, but still potentially possible to integrate with github or similar
        - With existing channels, oftentimes questions are unanswered. Are there things that would be helpful in promoting communication
            - help wanted tag on bugzilla is one attempt 
        - Would be helpful to know who is responsible for which parts of the code base (svn blame helps to identify who on R Core works on what parts/core packages)
    - Name of this group? We have used various names, which do we prefer? (some attendees expressed preference in HackMD version of minutes)
        - Forwards/R Core working group/initiative
        - On-ramps team
        - R Contribution Team +1+1+1+1
        - On-ramps to R Core +1
      Heather will send a poll so we can settle on a name, which will help when we talk about the group to others.
4. AOB /Next steps
    - Terry Therneau looking for contributors/new maintainers to his packages: deming, coxme, bsdmatrix, noweb, rpart ("recommended"), and survival ("recommended"). 
    There is a potential succession plan for rpart and survival, but anyone here interested in contributing should let Heather know (not a general call at the moment).
    Raises more general issue of succession for packages, which potentially this group could assist with further down the line.
    - Next meeting: January 8, 2021.
