# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-01-08

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence, Luke Tierney, Robert Gentleman  
**R Foundation**: Bettina Grün  
**Forwards**: Heather Turner, Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel, Becca Wilson, gwynn sturdevant  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:  
**R User Groups**: Germán Rosati, Elio Campitelli  
**General R community**: Silvia Canelón, Priyanka Gagneja, Gabriel Becker  

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. News from R Core
   - Paul Murrell will give the R Core keynote at useR! 2021
   - Recent work in R Core: pipe operator developments
3. Name of this group. 
    - Google poll:
        - R Contribution Working Group (3)
        - Forwards/R Core Working Group (2)
        - Forwards/R Core Initiative (1)
        - R Forwards Working Group (1)
        - R Contribution Team (0)
    - Straw poll at last meeting:
        - Forwards/R Core working group/initiative
        - On-ramps team
        - R Contribution Team (4)
        - On-ramps to R Core (1)
      
    So, R Contribution Working Group it is.
4. R Dev Guide. Application for Tweag fellowship was not successful. However, R Foundation have agreed to fund the project instead. Saranjeet Kaur will work for 12 weeks from 22 February 2021.
        
    - Both excitement and caution around this -- would be useful to have a more approachable version of the documentation but also caution around duplicating content and potentially causing confusion around what the source of truth is later on
        - Could be useful to have notes from new contributors on following R-devel installation instructions as discussed here: https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/1
        - Also could be useful to pitch in as beta testers as Saranjeet is writing the guide
        - Current plan is to focus on writing the document for developing on Mac.
            - Might be worthwhile to defer tackling Mac support on this guide since things will be changing on this front in the near future, but we expect that Macs will be popular among potential contributors
            - Windows support is important for contributors outside the US, currently building R on Windows is more daunting a task
            - If the goal is to get people to build R at all, a suggested pathway might be "if you're not on Mac/Linux, use Docker". Another possibility for Windows is the Windows Subsystem for Linux. Implications for system requirements (min RAM/processor)?

5. Dev stream at useR! 2021. Laura Acion has had to step down from useR! organization. Federico Marini will be co-ordinating satellite events.
   - Technical satellite conference: Some years this has been called Directions in Statistical Computing (DSC), some years R Summit. 
       - DSC facilitates outreach of R Core to other technical communities (Python, Julia, etc.), while R Summit facilitates outreach to the R developer community
        - This year there may not be a separate event, but other technical events could happen as part of useR!
    - Videos that are more developer oriented could be organised as a separate stream after the event for discoverability
    - Hands on workshop 
        - Difficulty is holding them online with participants with various setups. 
        - Potential workshop structure: Docker image with R built that everyone could get started with (Bioconductor has some experience with this). Participants can learn about patches/making contributions. Could use Jeroen's CI tool for testing. R Core to discuss.

6. Online mentoring forum. 

    - Kara Woo and Silvia Canelon will join Heather Turner as administrators for 2021. 
    - Now have a landing page: https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/. Will be advertised in Forwards News to be published in upcoming R Journal issue (preprint here: https://github.com/forwards/admin/blob/master/R-Journal-news-articles/2020-vol2/RJwrapper.pdf)
    - Heather working on linking to Bugzilla to get notifications about new bug reports in Slack
    - Advertise more widely to get more people on Slack
    - Work out loud channel -- one thread per work out loud session might be preferable

7. Evaluation of development platform (bridge to git/GitHub/GitLab)
    - No news on this front for now

8. AOB /Next steps
    - Next meeting: Tuesday February 9 2021, 21:00 UTC
  
