# R Core Initiatives Meeting

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence, Luke Tierney, Martin Maechler
**R Foundation**: Bettina Grün, Gabriela de Queiroz
**Forwards**: Heather Turner, Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel
**General R community**: Laura Ación, Kara Woo, Silvia Canelón, Amelia McNamara, Constantin Ahlmann-Eltze, Gabriel Becker
**RConsortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: Samantha Toet

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. Update on issues
    - R Dev Guide, Tweag Fellowship
        - https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/2
        - R version of the Python dev guide. Saranjeet Kaur (India) put in an application. 
        - Will know by Oct 14.
        - Three alternatives if unsuccessful: ask R Foundation/R Consortium for funding (~$3k for 12 weeks), or distribute task among us. Example sub-tasks:
            - Creating a list of R core members with expertise
            - How to report a bug
            - How to build R on different platforms
    - Dev stream at useR! 2021 (global, multiple time zones)
        - Laura has been talking to Luke and Michael
        - Sent an email to the R Core list (Oct 1; they saw it)
        - R community would benefit from learning more about how R core works, what they do
        - Opportunities:
            - Keynote (1 or 2 speakers), Michael will bring it up with R core
            - Tutorial from R core
            - Way to increase 1 on 1 interactions after the conference
                - R core members would record a personal story to introduce themselves to community
            - DSC / R Summit 2021: a technical and inclusive meeting in conjunction with useR!
                - Already being planned, Michael on Slack, Gabe invited to help
                - Martin: good opportunity for R core and other groups to get together in person
                    - Virtual interactions are challenging for instructors and learners
                    - Laura: some of these challenges can be mitigated with more support for instructors and online teaching (i.e. MetaDocencia)
                    - Laura: useR! organizers understand and are working to make it more interactive
            - Mine would be happy to help with bug fixing or other active events
    - Online mentoring forum: trying to decide on a platform
        - [Survey results](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/blob/master/mentorship/chat_and_q_and_a_platforms_survey.md)
        - Most respondents were in favor of using Slack, except R core was split (yes/maybe/no about evenly)
        - Most experts are in favor of email, but we lose some of the other contributors
        - Proposal:
            - Start a Slack group and see whether expert engagement is sufficient
        - Gabe: what about archiving history in Slack?
            - Heather: Could apply for non-profit access to professional features
            - Heather: History may not be so important, a reasonable amount is kept by default
        - Michael: Slack could provide a gateway, and specific mentoring projects could use any medium
        - Gabe: are talking about this group, or a community that this group would build?
            - Heather: there would be a lot of overlap, but we will reach out and build a larger group
        - Heather: could start working on the dev guide, then bugs, etc, it would be dynamic
        - Most people were unsure if they would use a Q&A platform. Discourse the preferred option if we do go for this. So we can put the idea of a Q&A platform on hold and try chat to start with. 
        - Laura: start with something and improve it later
            - Mine: give it a try for a few months and if nothing happens, we can figure something out
        - Heather looked into a slack/email bridge, but could not get it to work.
    - Evaluation of development platform (bridge to git/GitHub/GitLab)
        - Jenny put some resources on the GitHub issue about other groups (Python, Java) transitioning to git/
        - Heather talked to Simon Urbanek about potential R core support for GitHub mirrors:
            - [SVN mirror](https://github.com/wch/r-source)
                - This is a direct mirror of the SVN repo that syncs once an hour. There is no option to create issues. You can create a pull request and reference it in a Bugzilla issue. You have to manually build R, which is currently tricky as R must be built from an SVN commit. Potentially R core could set this up to sync more regularly and fix the build issue.
            - [SVN mirror with GitHub actions](https://github.com/r-devel/r-svn)
                - This mirror syncs every 15 mins. It uses GitHub actions to automatically build and test R on multiple platforms. This allows PRs to be tested. However, some extra code is added for the GitHub actions, so it is not a simple mirror. This could be supported 1 of 2 ways:
                    - Incorporate extra code in the core SVN repo: this means it cannot accept direct contributions and must be supported by R core.
                    - Keep it separate: this means people can contribute by issues/PRs, but opens possibility of people trying to make PRs beyond the additional code that must be filtered out.
        It would still be useful to do a high-level evaluation of git as we discussed last time, to help evaluate these options (and potentially others). Simon has considered the practicalities, but which of the pros of git do we keep, and is the gain worth the effort?
        - Questions: 
            - At what level do we integrate with git? What would be useful and practical?
            - Who is going to do the work?
4. AOB /Next steps
    - Will invite Simon for next time
    - Next meeting: Tuesday November 10, 21:00-22:00 UTC ([local time](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2020-11-10/22:00/On-ramps%20to%20R%20core)).
    
    
