# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-09-24

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence, Martin Maechler, Martyn Plummer, Luke Tierney      
**R Foundation**:  Heather Turner, Bettina Gruen  
**Forwards**: gwynn  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: gwynn  
**MiR**: gwynn   
**R-Ladies**: Yani Bellini Saibene (LatinR), gwynn  
**R User Groups**:
**General R community**: Lluís Revilla, Kara Woo, Gabriel Becker  

[Saranjeet Kaur and Toby Dylan Hocking tried to join but got stuck in the Zoom waiting room - the Forwards Zoom settings have now been updated to not use a waiting room by default to avoid this happening next time!]

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. Ideas for coming year: https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/blob/master/ideas_incubator.md
    - [R Contribution Working Group in LatinR 2021 (and beyond)? #9](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/9) [YSB]
        - November 10-12 2021, UTC-3.
        - Guest talks, panels, tutorials (the week before)
        - Saranjeet talk about R Dev Guide - confirmed! English video with subtitles in Spanish and Portuguese.
        - GB + R Core member re-run of Contributing to R workshop? MM may be be free - he can understand questions in Spanish and answer in English, if required!
        - Lluís talk about bugRzilla? TBc.
        - Some ideas may be saved for 2022.
        - Other Spanish/Portuguese contributions? Any R Core members? Some understand Spanish but maybe not enough to give a talk.
        - Currently reviewing abstracts, YSB will follow up with when it's clear how much space is left. Workshops would be week before.
    - [R Contribution Working Group at R@IISA #13](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/13) [HT] 
        - R@IISA organized by Naras (Balasubramanian Narasimhan) in 2019
        - Usual cycle of IISA would be to return to December 2022. So R@IISA possibly in India this time or online/hybrid?
        - Could have similar events as at useR!/LatinR - HT will raise possibility with Naras to bear in mind.
    - [Outreach of the R Developer's Guide #11](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/11) [HT on behalf of SK]
        - Some ideas outlined in isssue: Monthly Challenge related to guide; associated R-Ladies/MiR meetups.
        - SK put application in for Code for Science & Society Digital Infrastructure Incubator grant to potentially support this work.
        - gs: R4DS community would be a good contact - they have run various book clubs and could potentially help/advise. 
    - [Governance of the R Contribution Working Group (RCWG) #10](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/10) [HT on behalf of SK]
        - Possibility of steering group raised by reviewers of CS&S grant application. ML: In a sense R Foundation board acts as steering group. Clarifying RF role might help here. General consensus to keep structure of WG simple.
    - [Outreachy internships #15](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/15) [HT]
        - Apply Jan 2022 for May-Aug 2022 internships (or Aug 2022 for Dec 2022 - Mar 2023).
        - Need two mentors: Heather + ?. Day-to-day mentors could co-mentor with R Core/other expert.
        - Potential projects: Bug triage, Message translation.
        - GB could be interested in mentoring.
    - [Analysis of interaction between development platform/practices and inclusion # 6 and related issues](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/10) [HT]
        - Including git/SVN cheatsheets in the guide (https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/12). MM: this would be helpful to make SVN seem more accessible. SVN for git users.
        - Using r-svn for patch testing and review (outside R Core) (https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/23). GB: Need to be clear that okay for testing but not for bug reporting/discussing with R Core. Would be helpful to have official position on how it is used reflected in guide and in repo description. MM: to be official, should be owned by R core.
        - MM: Bugzilla is main thing to promote.
        - ML: thinks that Jeroen willing for R Core to take control of r-svn. Currently useful as developer tool.
        - ML: some people talk of Bugzilla acting as a filter for technical expertise, but that's not the intention!
    - [Highlight bugs needing attention #16](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/16) [LR]
        - Shiny dashboard? Or simpler interface e.g. table. To make it easier to search bugs that would be good to work on, e.g. Has a member of R Core already commented? Has there already been a patch?
        - GB: When working on bugs I use Bugzilla to order bugs from newest to oldest, then scan for issues that seem to fit the time I have available. 
        - GB: Not sure if bugs are marked as "CONFIRMED" when they have actually been confirmed. This would be helpful feedback for people that are doing the work of confirming bugs.
        - LR: Elin Waring has been helping by responding to people regarding their report.
        - MM: Different R Core members behave differently unfortunately - not a standard workflow for marking bugs or responding to people.
        - ML: Could updating CONFIRMED status be something triagers can do?
        - MM: Even chaging status creates noise (in terms of email notifications)
        - GB: Can this be set in Bugzilla?
        - GB: Could we have tool to automate the checking of an example (confirming bug?)
    - [Improve RCWG communications #14](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/14) [HT]
        - Update R Contribution Site: calendar of events, links to dev guide and workshops.
        - Link R Contribution Site from R project website. Longer term merge with developer.R-project.org?
        - Should we have a separate Twitter account, or use R Foundation one? Could Lluis's Twitter account be an official one (the one that tweets R-devel NEWS: https://twitter.com/R_dev_news)? MP: RF account currenlty low volume account for big announcements. Probably better to work by retweeting significant news/events. HT: so we could open the account with a "Hello World" tweet and get the R Foundation account to retweet that to help pick up followers. KW: @_R_Foundation has 22.3k followers.
    - [Student projects #17](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/17) [MCR - not present, so agenda item skipped]
        - Get Forwards teaching team involved?
    -  Bug barbecue [GB]
        - One idea could be having a “bug barbecue”, with involvement from R Foundation, or R-core. Probably not to fix things, but to have a big “replication/confirmation” push in a short amount of time with high engagement. As opposed to longer term mentoring, or in addition to it [issue added post-meeting: [#18](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/18)]
5. AOB /Next steps
    - Next meeting: Tuesday October 26, 21:00 UTC+1
    
    
