# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-03-12

## Present

**R Core**: Luke Tierney, Michael Lawrence, Martyn Plummer  
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner  
**Forwards**:   Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:  
**MiR**:  
**R User Groups**:  
**General R community**: Llu√≠s Revilla, Kara Woo, Gabriel Becker, Carol Willing, Toby Hocking  

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. useR! 2021
    - Translations workshop. ML: has talked with Michael Chirico, with idea of submitting proposal to ISC for a working group on this topic, with a tutorial as one output. Also building basic better infrastructure for contributing translations and managing translation teams. Anyone interested welcome to join in on putting proposal together/working on project. One step is cleaning up English messages first, so not just for people that speak another language. Will invite folk currently on translation teams. No deadline yet for ISC proposals. 
    - Contribution workshop. HT: No volunteers from R core/R Foundation. But GB will start putting something together and seek feedback. What should people know that they don't seem to? What message do R Core want to get across? HT to resend email to R Foundation members, as some missed it. GB to email R-devel.
        - GB: What level should the tutorial be? A case study working though a challenging bug? Or an introduction to Bugzilla reporting/review. HT: probably more introductory.
        - GB: Is there any platform/infrastructure provided by useR!? HT: no, down to tutor, could be Docker. TH: I've used https://rcloud.social/index.html in the past. HT: Others have used rstudio.cloud.
        - GB, You may want to use some content from these mentored sprints https://github.com/pycon-mentored-sprints/mentored-sprints-website
3. R Dev Guide 
    - SK: Starting on "Getting Started" section, e.g. installing R-devel on Windows. Will be moving on to Bugzilla, lifecycle of a patch and testing. Would be helpful to have reviewers when PRs are made. HT: can share links to PRs on R-devel Slack. GB and KW would be happy to help review.
    - Initial topics to document: https://hackmd.io/0dNSox0dT3mbbH1KaGcrqg?view - feel free to comment on this plan!
    - CW: who has permissions to merge PRs? HT to check. (I am `willingc` on GitHub.)
4. bugRzilla package: https://github.com/llrs/bugRzilla
    - LR: Package to interact with Bugzilla (shared slides https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DPELuaTX6IzH9RLlEdN0W9_QZbK9PNjAAFZirC0i_BA/edit?usp=sharing). 
    - GB: Can users submit a bug report with a patch? LR: no, for simple bug reports.
    - ML: Do users need a Bugzilla account? LR: yes. ML : this requires sending email Martin Maechler, for approval. Could bugRzilla provide a way to simplify this process? Spam users are unlikely to use an R package and go through several questions in order to submit a bug. MP: In the past had people using R Bugzilla as a student exercise, resulting in a lot of spam reports.
    - TH: Anyway, I understood that R core prefers that you post to r-devel before posting on bugzilla. LR: Yeah, checking how many issues are reported on r-devel and later on submitted on bugzilla is one of the things I wanted to look at. 
    - ML: Maybe take some ideas from reprex package? Or even integrate with that? GB: we could submit a PR to the reprex package to see if they will integrate.
    - LR: reprex has facilities for creating different markdown output. Not sure which markdown flavour Bugzilla uses.
5. Google Season of Docs: https://github.com/rstats-gsod. 
    - HT: Plan to submit proposal based on documentation for useR! Ways to be involved:
        - Give feedback on proposals
        - Submit statement of interest to be hired as a technical writer (level of work to be negotiated but total budget USD 5000 - 15000)
        - Volunteer to give feedback/advice (can budget for USD 500 stipend for each volunteer)
        - Volunteer to join admin team
    - HT: Potential to propose other documentation projects in future years.
    - TH: Would translations would fit into this? e.g. of R manuals/documentation. HT: think it should be in scope. May be too much to pull together for this year, but could be good for next year, especially if other translations project takes off this year. ML: would need to think about scope, e.g. target one language which would have most impact.
3. CZI (Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative) Essential Open Source Software for Science grants: https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/essential-open-source-software-for-science/
    - HT: Was raised on the R Foundation board. Could be very relevant to this group as a way to support related work.
        - USD 100k-400k over 2 years. 
        - Potential to fund 
            - developers, contributors, technical writers, community managers, community educators
            - Hackathons, sprints, outreach, or other forms of community engagement and support for community participation
        - Letter of intent by March 30
    - ML: Bioc has strong relationship with CZI could motivate a more general investment in R.
    - MP: Is this a regular call? Will we get another chance if we're too late this time? CW: This is 4th cycle, seems likely there will be more as having a very positive impact.
    - CW: Proposals are more light weight than academic proposals. So could be feasible to put together quite quickly (~1 day).
    - ML: Martin Morgan would be relevant to contact. LR: Leonardo Collado is also on Bioconductor community group, so it might be a good lead to make it happen.
6. Online mentoring forum (reminder of link to join: https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack)
    - HT: Plans for future blog posts in "External Contributions" category? Slack members found this helpful: https://developer.r-project.org/Blog/public/2019/10/09/r-can-use-your-help-reviewing-bug-reports/. LT: There was a follow-up to that post, but nothing else in pipeline at the moment - won't happen before summer due to other commitments (both LT and Tomas Kalibera that wrote the post on bug review are very busy)
    - HT: Apparently Matrix (https://matrix.org/) does not have a history limit and there is a Slack integration to bring Slack channels to Matrix. Could be a way to both save R-devel chat and allow people to use client of choice. Any Matrix users here? All: no. HT: On my the longer-term TODO list to look at then.
10. AOB /Next steps
    - ML has invited Leonardo Collado-Torres to join. HT: Also invited Toby Hocking as discussed in our last meeting and good to see him join today. Feel free to invite anyone else you think would be interested.
    - Next meeting: Tuesday April 13, 2021, 21:00-22:00 UTC.
    
    
