# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-12-10

## Present

**R Core**:Luke Tierney, Michael Lawrence       
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner, Bettina Grün   
**Forwards**: Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel, Zane Dax
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: 
**MiR**: Zane Dax
**R-Ladies**: Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal, Zane Dax
**R User Groups**:    
**General R community**: Kara Woo, Harshvardhan, Zane Dax

[Record meeting]

## Agenda

1. [5 mins] Welcome/News
    - Note upcoming changes affecting anyone building R-devel on Windows: https://developer.r-project.org/Blog/public/2021/12/07/upcoming-changes-in-r-4.2-on-windows/index.html
2. [25 mins] Outreach of the R Development Guide (SK/HT) https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/11
    -  Saranjeet Kaur has been awarded a grant in the The Digital Infrastructure Incubator at Code for Science & Society (https://incubator.codeforscience.org/cohort). Selected participants receive a stipend of $5000 to compensate for 5-15hrs/month work over 6 months. This program was very competitive, ~10% chance of success, so it's great that Saranjeet's potential and the importance of this work has been recognised this way!
    -  Potential link to student projects: https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/17
    -  Also to generally increasing activity on Slack 
    -  Current idea: "Collaborative Campfires" monthly from Jan 2022 to end of incubator period (April 2022?). Collaborative learning activity related to section of R Development Guide. E.g. bug review, people pick bug from Bugzilla prior to meeting and prepare review, then discuss together at meeting (before potentially comment on Bugzilla itself). Advertise to R-Ladies, MiR, LatinR, etc; also via Twitter, Slack. MCR: be good to get a few folk to commit at least to first couple of meetings, like community champions. Need to know time commitment. H: would be helpful to have mailing list so people get reminders. HT: maybe use eventbrite or similar? ZD: Could use a hashtag / tag a Twitter friend to work on issues/ bugs/ translations on R. 
3. Bug barbecue https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/issues/18
    - HT: When to aim for: March 2022 (when rstudio::conf would have been) or June 2022 (tie in with useR!) or other date.
    - KW: March will come up very fast!
    - MCR: Maybe as one of the useR! workshops?
4. [5 mins] RCWG communications (Heather Turner)
    - In order to get contributor.r-project.org domain set up, need to move current source to its own organization. Will explore potential to merge with https://r-devel.github.io/
    - Volunteers needed to take over from Kara Woo and Silvia Canelón for 2022.
        - Slack moderators (x2):
          - am willing (Zane Dax)
          - Help uphold the Code of Conduct and Posting Guide (https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack)
          - Help with minor admin tasks related to the Slack, e.g. updating the invite link on the website.
        - Communications manager (x1):
            - Tidying up RCWG minutes (very light editing to credit comments, add missing info such as people present that didn't add themselves or something put in the Zoom chat, improving clarity here and there)
            - Coming up with a summary to submit to R Weekly (like so https://github.com/rweekly/rweekly.org/pull/966)
            - Posting the summary on R-devel Slack #general channel and on the R-Ladies Community Slack #inclusion channel (N.B. gwynn reposts to MiR Slack)
            - Potentially also posting new on RCWG Twitter account
5. News from LatinR/follow-on ideas
    - Spanish translation hackathon?
    - Interest from people translate guide itself, e.g. Riva Quiroga (@rivaquiroga on Twitter), Natalia da Silva (@pacocuak on Twitter) and others. Maybe Yani Bellini Saibene to review?
7. Translation teams
    - From last time: Michael Chirico suggested looking at commit history to see who is committing which translations. But does R Core have any list of active maintainers? Michael Lawrence might be able to add some emails of recent contributors. Will talk to Michael Chirico about kicking off working group.
8. Guidance for writing tests: https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/28
    - Any comment from R Core members?
    - Gabe and Martin's tutorial (from useR! 2021) might contain some information about this already.
9. Contribution by corporations (Q from the community)
    - What could be done to streamline R contributions by corporations? Could the R Consortium play a role for organization, harmonization and validation of contributions made by companies? How could Tech help to this purpose?
        - As reference, for Python Microsoft currently has five 'core' developers who contribute part-time to the development of CPython: van Rossum, Brett Cannon, Steve Dower, Eric Snow, and Barry Warsaw.
        - The company also employs several core contributors and maintainers of key open-source projects in the Python ecosystem, including pandas, Dask, Jupyter, nteract, scikit-learn and Apache Arrow.
        - Joining R Consortium is a start. Other companies have contributed a lot to R Foundation. Some are also contributing to working groups, e.g. providing infrastructure.
10. [5 mins] AOB / Next steps
    - Next meeting: Tuesday, January 18, 2022, 20:00-21:00 UTC.


**Notes:**

Zane Dax: 1) hashtag/ tag a Twitter friend on working on issues/ bugs/ translations on R. 
          2) a YouTube series etc on how to do/ go about working on issues on GitHub which then can be posted on the website to have a entry point for new people and create a group of new users
          
    FNU Harshvardhan : a mailing list for people interested, send out email notifications 
