# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-02-09

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence  
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner, Jenny Bryan  
**Forwards**: Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel, Di Cook, Maria Prokofieva, Kevin O'Brien  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:  
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**: Gabe Becker, Silvia Canelón   

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. News from R Core
    - ML: still figuring out role of R Core in useR!
    - ML: R Consortium potentially providing funding for an existing member of R core, may lay foundation for future funding opportunities for R core contributors.
3. useR! 2021
    - Tidyverse developer day tentatively planned for Thursday 8 July favouring PDT timezone [this info corrected post-meeting!]
    - useR! has had 80 proposals for tutorials, but the organizers are expecting us to propose one or two developer-focused ones.
        - GB: reached out some time ago to Tomas Kalibera, suggesting to team up on a tutorial on contributing to R Core, but Tomas said he would not want to give a tutorial this year. GB is still willing to do tutorial from the contributor perspective. 
        - HT (and ML?) will raise possibility of R Core-led tutorial at next R Foundation meeting.
        - HT: Contributing translations could be the focus for a tutorial or wider project for this group. We have Michael Chirico in our group who has worked on this topic. It could be a good entry point for new contributors as there would be a standard workflow, not requiring extensive programming knowledge. 
            - DC: Recommends listening to Michael Chirico's [rstudio::global talk](https://rstudio.com/resources/rstudioglobal-2021/making-pot-ery-with-r-translations-in-r-packages/) for background. 
            - ML: I am the point person on R Core for this. We could make a call for where help is really needed. HT: current public information is not that helpful on saying where help is needed: https://developer.r-project.org/TranslationTeams.html. ML: This is a potential new leadership opportunity, for someone to manage the translation teams and keep track of progress. MC-R: assume there is quite a bit of technical process behind this. ML: process could be streamlined! 
            - MC-R: people might be more willing to help with tutorials if we have defined the scope based on the translations idea. 
            - ML: could be a good R Consortium working group; building on potools [Michael Chirico's package]. Maybe Michael Chirico will be interested in leading? GB: other orgs may also have useful input, e.g. The Carpentries. Very active, international community working in many languages. 
            - MC-R: tutorial could cover both technical part of contribution as well as the actual translation. 
            - GB: How do you test a proposed translation patch? ML: That would be a good question for the working group. 
            - HT: can follow up with Michael Chirico and reach out to MiR to gauge interest in working on a proposal to the R Consortium. ML: can summarise current state of translations. 
            - GB: may be easier for people to improve current translations vs starting from scratch. Currently doesn't involve normal contributing process, e.g. Bugzilla, macking a patch. ML: this is an opportunity to make things consistent. The useR! tutorial could be an output of the R Consortium working group. 
            - JB: grant period for 2020 opened beginning of March, closed beginning of April, so timing fits in well. HT: good opportunity to get some funding for contributors, who may not have so much free time to support this work.
4. Google Summer of Code call for mentors/projects: https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2021/wiki/. 
    - ML: has there been any focus on diversity here? HT: nothing explicit that I know of, something to thing about. 
    - DC: GSoC could be an opportunity to tidy up the Forwards teaching materials. Would need a mentor. HT: not sure if in scope for GSoC. DC: All R markdown behind it, could be packaged up, so essentially a coding project. MC-R: current materials are a bit fragmented. Could be converted to an R package. Is the process very selective? DC: some selection, but if mentor + student, project will probably go ahead. MC-R: ask on Forwards teaching channel to start with. DC: important part is mapping out the milestones. Student deadline in April, so probably have until mid-March for a proposal. HT: need two mentors - could be someone outside Forwards. GB: possibly need curriculum maintainer as a second mentor. 
    - ML: could ask Toby Dylan Hocking if he is interested in joining this group.
10. R Dev Guide. 
    - HT: Saranjeet Kaur is ready to start (Feb 22). She is a Windows user, so we can use this as opportunity to outline process for using Docker/Windows Subsystem for Linux to give a standard environment for R development. GB: might even be better to provide a Docker with all things installed and instructions for people to get started. ML: yes, this is what we would like to do. HT: this is something we can then use in the useR! tutorials.
11. Online mentoring forum. 
     - HT: join link here: https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack (this will have up-to-date link, which changes each month). Still need to change Forwards website to make this subsite more obvious. GB: I've been holding back on inviting people - can the link be shared more widely now? HT: Yes. I advertised it at rstudio::global on the package developers forum and we had a few people join from that. I've also added an RSS feed for Bugzilla bug reports and R-devel emails, so there should at least be a couple of messages each day for people to look at. The R Journal issue is now out and the Slack workspace is advertised in the Forwards column. So now is a good time to start inviting people - no need to wait for me to fix the Forwards website!
12. Evaluation of development platform (bridge to git/GitHub/GitLab)
    - HT: a little new discussion on the GitHub issue, but otherwise no development on this. I won't have time to work on it in the next few months and it is probably not the most productive use of our time right now. So unless someone else wants to take the lead, this will be on hold for now. Simon Urbanek has looked into how R Core might provide more support for GitHub mirrors, as discussed in the October meeting - see the [minutes](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution/blob/master/team_minutes/2020-10-09.md) if you missed this.
14. AOB /Next steps
    - Next meeting: Friday March 12 2021, 15:00 UTC. We'll continue to alternate between the second Friday of the month, 15:00 UTC and the second Tuesday of the month, 21:00 UTC, as we seem to have reasonable attendance this way and hopefully people can at least make one of the two times.
    
    
