# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-07-23

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence  
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner  
**Forwards**: Mine Ã‡etinkaya-Rundel, Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal, Jyoti Bhogal  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: 
**MiR**: 
**R User Groups**:  
**General R community**: Gabe Becker, Kara Woo  

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. R Dev Guide (https://forwards.github.io/rdevguide/)
    - Current status: SK: will be making a few changes in response to review comments not addressed yet.
        - GB: Is it feature complete? SK: covered the topics we had planned for the initial version [end-product of 10-week project funded by the R Foundation].
        - MCR: Do we track usage? HT: Some privacy issues, e.g. with Google Analytics. MCR: Can look up alternatives. HT: would be helpful to track current usage and future usage if we do anything to promote it/improve SEO; also for reporting back to the R Foundation.
        - HT: Not yet linked from R Contribution website, which should aid discovery.
        - HT: Not yet covered by the guide: contributing to translations, testing code, building/installing R on Linux/Mac. ML: Should encourage people to add issues for things that need adding.
        - GB: Should change first page/introduction that people see - need to make clear it is a draft, also focus on purpose and scope vs contributors/how to contribute. Should do this before promoting more widely. ML: was that structure copied over from Python guide? HT: Don't think so, just miscellaneous content we needed to add somewhere in addition to planned topics. SK: Expects this will change in the revision. GB: Should also have a way to cite. HT: Also consider license. SK: Could try Zenodo to obtain DOI. MCR: For citation can use R Contribution Working Group as author. MCR: Someone from rOpenSci might be able to give advice if necessary re licensing/DOI. SK: Check out https://guides.github.com/activities/citable-code/ for adding a DOI to a GitHub repo.
    - Feedback on guide from useR!
        - SK: Visibility/SEO - came up in Q & A, also in this issue: https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/22. HT: Expected as not promoted much yet, while still in draft.
        - SK: Also issue regarding using GitHub r-svn repo for testing (https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/23). ML: We should encourage people to try it out. GB: But not official workflow. ML: Can phrase it as community tool. GB: Need to be clear that people should not discuss issues there. ML: This group could respond to issues as a pre-screening process. GB: Worried about fracturing conversation. MCR: Need to have more newcomers testing it. ML: Currently have a lot of conversation happening upstream that's not recorded (e.g. on Slack) at least conversation on GitHub is tracked in systematic way. GB: could link issues to a channel on Slack.
    - HT: We previously discussed idea for book club/mentoring group to work through guide. Put this on hold for now till Sept/Oct.
3. useR! 2021 RCWG workshops
    - Reporting back:
        - Contributing to R
            - GB (tutorial lead): Went through lessons learned in his own work; participants worked through past bug in small groups. 50 signed up; ~30 at peak, 19 stayed all through, seemed to enjoy it. Would have been good to have a wait list to replace drop-outs.
            - HT: Organized follow-up meeting on July 20. Had 5 people and worked through another one of the past examples. Again good feedback. Can repeat over next few weeks.
            - GB: As tutorial used Docker of past R version, simple to run again, e.g. at next useR!.
        - Translations workshop
            - ML: Was there for first hour. Michael Chirico (tutorial lead) went through techincal perspective, tips & tricks. A lot of audience engagement. Discovered some infrastructure that could be useful for R Consortium funded Translations Working Group. No submissions yet, but a good start that working group can carry forward. SK: In the second half, participants tried to translate to Hungarian, Spanish, Indonesian, Hindi. The automatic tool mentioned for translating was: https://poedit.net/)
    - HT: Next step will be publication of tutorials on RCWG website, after they have been published by useR!.
5. RCWG 1 year on - how are we doing?
    - ML: Creating Slack space has been useful; would be good to add more value to belonging to that, e.g. list of bugs that people can go after - liaise with people doing triage to push bugs in that direction?
    - GB: It's good that people joining the Slack are self-selecting as people that want to contribute to community-building. Activity is still fairly low at the moment, but messages do generally get a response. So far [GB is] still the only person that has posted in #patches-for-review and #working-out-loud channels. Encourage people to use #work-out-loud channel during next bug-fixing Zoom?
    - ML: Should encourage more folks to join RCWG meetings. HT: Can put invite on Slack not just send by email. KW: Should make clear new people can join anytime.
    - ML: Would be good to set goals for the year. HT: We could repeat exercise did last year; generating ideas via GitHub issues. GB: This enables people to just watch, they don't have to come with anything already.
    - GB: More widely publicize RCWG minutes. HT: Can post on Slack when available. MCR: Could add to R Weekly. So reach people beyond Slack.
    - MCR: Could have some student projects e.g. working through dev guide. ML: Need to avoid setting coursework that creates spam e.g. submitting bug reports just as an exercise. MCR: Yes, any reports should be checked by the professor first, so at least they think it is useful. GB: Could use examples from Contributing to R workshop as teaching material.
    - SK: Could add good examples to dev guide. [From previous message on Slack: examples of bug report(s), review of bug report(s), examples of submitted patch(es), examples of patch(es) reviewed, examples of improvements to R's documentation, etc.]
    - ML: Could add beginning to end case study to include in the guide. From discovering bug, to good bug report, to bug fix. GB: Example from Contributing to R workshop showed patch not necessarily needed to make good contribution. ML: Could have case studies both with and without a patch.
    - ML: Would be good to have bigger social media presense. RCWG twitter account?
9. AOB /Next steps
    - Next meeting: Will skip August meeting, giving time to asynchronously generate and discuss ideas for next year on GitHub. Meet again in Sept, to further discuss/vote on ideas to work on next.
    
    
