# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-04-30

## Present

**R Core**: Luke Tierney, Martyn Plummer  
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner, Bettina Grün  
**Forwards**: Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: gwynn  
**MiR**: gwynn  
**R User Groups**:  Elio Campitelli, gwynnn  
**General R community**: Kara Woo, Lluís Revilla, Toby Dylan Hocking  

## Agenda

1. Welcome/News
    - RSE Fellowship (https://twitter.com/HeathrTurnr/status/1388069701713006592?s=20)
        - Will enable more support for RCWG and associated activities from July
    - Introductions
        - Toby: based in Arizona; R Google Summer of Code admin
        - Mine: R Forwards teaching team
        - Martyn: University of Warwick (Statistics) and R Foundation board member (as well as R Core).
        - Bettina: based in Vienna; R Foundation member
        - Lluís: working on bugRzilla package
        - gwynn: postdoc at Harvard Business School
        - Kara: data scientist
        - Elio: R community member in Argentina
2. R Dev Guide (https://forwards.github.io/rdevguide/)
    - Presentation by Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1S1TzCwOatptrsvGNsZ7dUYVqM_89p_4q5BETWTnI9CI/edit?usp=sharing
(Comments can be made on this google-slides link. Any feedback is welcome!)
        - Examples of good bug reports and bug reviews welcome.
        - Suggestions can be made on Google slides, R-devel slack or directly on GitHub https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide.
        - Some current issues
           - What components should be mentioned in a good bug report?
           - Issue on devguide repo: https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/9 -- about R versioning 
3. Supporting use of GitHub mirror (https://github.com/r-devel/r-svn) [carried over from agenda for meeting on 2021-04-12 that was cancelled, skipped as Michael Lawrence not present]
    - Can the GH mirror be used to review bug reports and patches before submitting to Bugzilla? Might it eventually replace Bugzilla? Note GitHub has ability to set issue templates: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository.
        - Should there be a Triage Team that can manage issues/PRs posted on this GH mirror?
    - Are there existing workflows using the GH mirror that can be included already in the Dev Guide?
4. Online mentoring forum (reminder of link to join: https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack)
    - New channels:
        - #bugreports-for-review (suggested by SK)
        - #core-outreach-github (tracks commits on https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution, which will mostly be updates to meeting dates and minutes)
        - #r-dev-guide-github (tracks commits on https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide)
        - #core-documentation (discussion related to core help files, manuals, R project webpages)
        - #core-translation (discussion related to translation of R errors/messages/warnings)
    - How to advertise more? Where and who will do this?
        - community groups, conferences
        - blog post, with success stories
    - Idea for R Dev Guide book club
        - could start after useR! - like book clubs on R4DS/R-Ladies Remote slacks.
        - additional hackathon aspect. So besides reading and talking about the book, also working on issues. For example, for the chapter about reviewing bug reports, select a few bugs that need work and report on them in groups. This would require a bit of curating on the part of whoever is leading the meeting in finding good issues/bugs/features to work with. 
5. Testing R
    - https://developer.r-project.org/Blog/public/2021/04/28/r-can-use-your-help-testing-r-before-release/index.html
    - Feature freeze happens May 4, code freeze May 11, the release is scheduled for May 18
7. useR! 2021
    - Translations workshop (Michael Lawrence and Michael Chirico): https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&search=Translating+R
    - Contribution workshop (Gabriel Becker and Martin Maechler): https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&search=Contributing+to+R
    - Registration for these tutorials is free (part of useR! registration, which is low cost; waivers available: https://user2021.r-project.org/participation/registration/)
8. Updates on items raised at March meeting
    - bugRzilla package: Lluís Revilla Sancho and HT have proposed a GSoC project to work on this, that has a potential student https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2021/wiki/bugRzilla:-Helping-submitting-issues-to-R
    - Google Season of Docs: the R Project has been accepted as a GSoD organization for 2021. Our project will improve useR! documentation: https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2021/wiki/GSOD-2021-Proposal. Plan to hire two technical writers (one in Nigeria, one in India), one editor (in Germany) and have support from team of past useR! organizers/GSoC mentors.
        - Some writing Di Cook did about organizing useR2018: http://dicook.org/2018/10/10/content/post/2018-10-10-user2018/
    - CZI (Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative) Essential Open Source Software for Science grants: https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/essential-open-source-software-for-science/. Some support from the R Foundation board to apply for funding for a fellowship scheme (4 x 1yr fellowships) that could support both experienced and novice contributors. c.f. https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/04/the-psf-is-hiring-developer-in.html, https://www.djangoproject.com/fundraising/#fellowship-program. However, we could not get a letter of intent prepared in time for deadline. Hopefully can try in later round.
9. AOB /Next steps
    - Next meeting: ~~Tuesday May 14, 2021, 21:00-22:00 UTC.~~ Tuesday 25 May 2021, 21:00-22:00 UTC. 
    
    
