# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-10-26

## Present

**R Core**:       
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner   
**Forwards**:   
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: gwynn    
**MiR**: gwynn   
**R-Ladies**: gwynn   
**R User Groups**:    
**General R community**: Lluís Revilla, Kara Woo, Gabriel Becker, Michael Chirico   

[Request from Martin Maechler to record meeting]

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. Report on bugRzilla GSoC and related work (Lluís Revilla Sancho)
    - bugRzilla GSoc project: improving tests on bugRzilla package and exploring database dump of R's Bugzilla.
    - Report: https://llrs.github.io/bugzilla_viz/bugRzilla_review.html and https://llrs.github.io/bugzilla_viz/
        - of the not closed bugs, there are a lot of unconfirmed bugs, so one area where we can help
        - most bugs are assigned "normal" severity: does this reflect reality, or is it not important (apart from enhancement vs not enhancement) - maybe users' view does not match R Core's view. Similarly priority.
        - "ispatch": when you submit an attachment can tick checkbox to say it is a patch, will also be automatically detected if an svn .diff file.
        - duplicate bugs not a big problem
        - spam vastly reduced by requiring Bugzilla account to be requested
        - most bugs have a few comments by a few people before being closed, usually including an R core member
        - looked at "high engagers" - people that comment or add attachments to other people's bugs
        - a lot of bug reporters do not comment further even on their own bugs
        - GB: how many bugs reported per year? LR: will check
        - GB: distribution of time from open to closed. LR: bugs open from 1 hour to 10000 hours
    - Package: https://github.com/llrs/bugRzilla/
    - Shiny app to highlight open bugs: https://github.com/llrs/open_bugs/
3. Bug barbecue (Gabe Becker)
    - HT: Could we run on a regular day each month? E.g. over 12 hour period, with RCWG members/R Core members committing to 1-2 hours in that time?
    - GB: goal is to be a burst of activity, so idea was to focus on a couple of times a year and advertise to get many people involved. Easier for R Core/other folks to carve out time.
    - KW: keeping momentum really hard, so discrete event can be easier to get people along to.
    - GB: could be attached to useR! - many people already putting time aside.
    - HT: maybe aim for when rstudio would have been? Tie in with other confs e.g. LatinR.
    - GB: experience from Carpentries is harder to do online
4. Contribution by corporations (Q from the community)
    - What could be done to streamline R contributions by corporations? Could the R Consortium play a role for organization, harmonization and validation of contributions made by companies? How could Tech help to this purpose?
        - As reference, for Python Microsoft currently has five 'core' developers who contribute part-time to the development of CPython: van Rossum, Brett Cannon, Steve Dower, Eric Snow, and Barry Warsaw.
        - The company also employs several core contributors and maintainers of key open-source projects in the Python ecosystem, including pandas, Dask, Jupyter, nteract, scikit-learn and Apache Arrow.
    - Not discussed in detail in the meeting, decided this was better left for a larger group
5. RCWG communications (Heather Turner)
    - Website updates
        - [Calendar of events](https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/events): can change timezone and add iCal to your calendar
        - New [tutorials](https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/tutorials) page, with translations tutorial added
        - Link to R Dev Guide added
    - R Foundation approved linking from r-project.org: waiting to get contributor.r-project.org domain set up.
    - Twitter account set up https://twitter.com/R_Contributors - again waiting for new subsite
    - Kara Woo will help with adding summary of RCWG meetings to R Weekly till the end of the year.
6. Translation teams (Michael Chirico)
    - There is a team working on Bahasa (Indonesian) and Spanish translations 
        - Indonesian team has a Slack group.
        - Latin American folk thought of hackathon to work on this.
        - Can look at commit history to see who is committing which translations.
        - Listed maintainers on https://developer.r-project.org/TranslationTeams.html a bit stale!
7. AOB / Next steps
    - Issue that would benefit from R Core comment - More details about writing tests:  https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide/issues/28
    - Connection to Bioconductor project: Vince Carey reached out to explore potential links between RCWG and Bioconductor Community Advisory Board/project Bioconductor, e.g. core developer Jennifer Wokaty also interested in arranging Outreachy internship.
    - Next meeting: Friday, December 10, 2021, 14:00-15:00 UTC.

