# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2021-05-25

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence, Luke Tierney
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner
**Forwards**: Saranjeet Kaur (also involved with R-Ladies)
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: 
**MiR**: 
**R User Groups**:  
**General R community**: Amelia McNamara, Nic Crane, LluÃ­s Revilla, Gebriel Becker

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. End of project presentation on R Dev Guide (current version: https://forwards.github.io/rdevguide/; GitHub repo: https://github.com/forwards/rdevguide) by 
Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal: presented using the guide built so far and the open PRs on the GitHub repo. Feedback will inform useR! 2021 talk. Feedback added below, 
not all discussed in meeting.
    - GB: We should mention release candidate versions in the "R versions and how to get them" section.
    - GB: I think a primary way bugs are discovered in R itself is that a bug is first found in code that uses external packages, then after debugging/investigation 
    a new example is created using only base packages. Is this discussed in the finding bugs section?
     - GB: Is the "reviewing bug reports" section about reviewing *bug reports* or is it about reviewing *patches*? Some clarity may help there.
     - GB: Some mention of the one-time need to request a bugzilla account probably called for [edit: that is already in the guide]. 
     - ML: For the time being, it would be worth clarifying that the [R-devel] Slack is a community effort that is not officially associated with R core.
     - LT: Would it make sense to reverse the order of chapters 3 and 4 so reviewing existing reports comes before filing new ones?
     - ML: How to make the guide more discoverable? Findable by googling. SK: plan for book club to work through guide. 
         - GB: Depends if it ever becomes an official R manual
         - ML: Would be good to get buy-in, e.g. link from R project website
         - GB: Possibly could be mentioned in start-up message for R, especially development version.
         - HT: Add to the introductory text on R Bugzilla?
         - GB: R-devel mailing list message footer? Currently points to mailing list home page which links to posting guide. https://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/r-devel.
     - ML: Want to make sure doesn't go out of date.
     - GB: Need to be clear about messaging - not for package developers.
     
3. Online mentoring forum (reminder of link to join: https://forwards.github.io/rcontribution/slack)
    - HT: Now > 100 members, thanks largely to Gabriel's Tweet (https://twitter.com/groundwalkergmb/status/1390418635793911808)
    - R Dev Guide book club planning
        - HT: Better name? "Book club" unclear to some. R Contribution Mentoring Group?
        - ML: What are the objectives: 
            1. Get new contributors to work through the guide, as a way to get started.
            2. Get experienced contributors to review the guide, as a way to get guide into a state that can be recommended to R Foundation to be formally adopted in some way.
          These may be more effectively done by separate groups.
        - HT: Timing? [some discussion] Undecided - postpone till after useR!.
    - HT: Linking with R Translations Working Group? ML: This has been funded by R Consortium, but not really kicked off yet.
4. useR! 2021
    - Contributing to R workshop (Gabriel Becker and Martin Maechler): https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&search=Contributing+to+R
        - HT: 38 registered, number of slots increased to 50
        - HT: Could we consider running twice? Gabriel willing to run again later in day (PDT time) but would need some support as will be nighttime for Martin then. 
        [No volunteers - stick with running once].
    - Translations workshop (Michael Lawrence and Michael Chirico): https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&search=Translating+R
        - HT: 16 registered. Any ideas for recruiting more participants?
            - ML: gamify to get new language translated.
            - GB: RUG, R-Ladies, Carpentries
        - ML: this group could kick-start R Translations Working Group.
    - HT: Registration for these tutorials is free (part of useR! registration, which is low cost; waivers available: https://user2021.r-project.org/participation/registration/).
5. bugRzilla GSoC project
    - HT: What analyses of R Bugzilla data would be useful? Let HT/LR know if any ideas.
    - GB: the bugRzilla package is another good place to prominently mention the contribution guide once its in a a sufficient state for publication
    - LR: Simon has provided a public database dump https://bugs.r-project.org/db/R-bugs.sql.xz. HT: The database dump will be updated at some frequency, possibly weekly? 
    LR: yes, so analyses can be updated in a dashboard, not just one-off.
    - HT: Simon is also setting up a test/development Bugzilla server. GB: This could be useful for the Contributing to R tutorial.
6. AOB /Next steps
    - Next meeting: Friday 25 June 2021, 14:00-15:00 UTC. 
    
    
