# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2022-10-18

## Present

**R Core**:    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner   
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**:   
**R User Groups**: Elio Campitelli.  
**Forwards**: Michael Chirico.  
**Latin R**: Ángela Sanzo.  
**General R community**: Lluís Revilla, Ben Ubah. 

## Agenda

1. Welcome

2. Translation hackathon (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/36)
    - Report from LatinR translation Hackathon (https://www.eventbrite.cl/e/r-translatonhackaton-de-traducao-do-r-tickets-431683776797)
        - Bea Milz gave an introduction: the need for translating R messages and a demo of how to use weblate.
        - 10 people did about 500 translations during 2 hours (with 0.5 hour for the introduction). Roughly even between Brazilian-Portuguese and Spanish. 
            Mostly new ones vs fixing "fuzzy" translations.
        - Helped to build collaboration across group, especially connecting to people with experience in translation.
        - A lot of people enrolled, but only 8 turned up.
        - Angela will translate slides and share. Can be used as basis for documentation to add to R Development Guide and Translation Dashboard. 
            Also slides for future events.
        - Perhaps add map or timeline (as at the bottom here: https://hackmd.io/GzIGWM4ZTdmM3B3q6C24RA?edit) to Translation Dashboard - 
            Ben will work on this.
    - Plan for AsiaR hackathon
        - For new languages, could be helpful to develop glossary first.
        - Can also work on batches so that each person translates one batch and reviews another batch.
        - Need some examples, e.g. when to translate English words or not. Could help to add some examples to the Dev Guide.
        - Possibly December - Heather will follow up with. 
    
3. Office hours (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/32)
     - Elin Waring and Gabriel Becker are willing one in the Americas time zone
     - Heather Turner and Ella Kaye are willing one in the EMEA time zone
     - Possibly first Thursday (TBC)
     - We could learn from rOpenSci co-working sessions - they have quiet and talking breakout rooms for people to work in. 
         Possibly collaborate on a joint session.

4. Bug BBQ retrospective (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/33)
     - Initial report here: https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/blob/main/bug_bbq/Bug_BBQ_retrospective.md - let Heather know if there are any 
          corrections or comments.
     - Main conclusions: outcomes seem good for this type of event. It gave an opportunity for R Core and experienced contributors to focus on open bugs 
          during and surrounding the event. Newer contributors benefited from discussing bugs with experienced contributors. The number of bugs addressed 
          was relatively small (10 out of 22 prepared), but a good proportion (7/10) were fixed or have a proposal to fix/close.
    
5. Code of conduct (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/34)
     - No progress yet on code of conduct to cover our own events.
     - R Core did talk about a wider code of conduct for the project at their meeting in September. Robert Gentleman and Martyn Plummer have offered to 
         help with this. Heather and Lluís are also willing to work on this.
     
6. AOB / Next steps
    - Importing translations from ISI glossary to weblate: https://www.isi-web.org/isi.cbs.nl/glossary/ - Michael will liaise with Gergely Daroczi. 
    - Google Season of Docs: Lluís working on installation instructions for different OS (Linux done, working on Windows + Mac). 
       Saranjeet working on other additions, e.g. adding new tests for R.
    - Next meeting: TBA. Be aware of changing time zones!
