# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2022-05-17

## Present

**R Core**: Sebastian Meyer 
**Bioconductor Core**:  
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**:   
**R User Groups**:    
**Forwards**: Zane Dax  
**General R community**: Gabriel Becker, Llu√≠s Revilla  

## Agenda

1. Welcome/News

2. Plans for Bug Barbecue (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/18)
    - There will be three sessions of 4 hours, so that at least one session should be convenient for your time zone (links show local time)
        - [Session 1 (APAC), 01:00  - 04:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Bug+BBQ+Session+1&iso=20220624T01&p1=%3A&ah=4)
        - [Session 2 (EMEA), 09:00 - 13:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Bug+BBQ+Session+2&iso=20220624T09&p1=%3A&ah=4)
        - [Session 3 (AMER), 16:00 - 20:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Bug+BBQ+Session+3&iso=20220624T16&p1=%3A&ah=4)
    - Plan for the sessions:
        - Choice of the following
            - "Introduction to Contribution" 1.5 hour tutorial, a cut-down version of the Contributing to R tutorial given by Gabe Becker and Martin Maechler last year https://github.com/gmbecker/contributing_to_r_lesson
            - "Welcome to Bug BBQ", 5-10 minute introduction to get experienced contributors started, possibly recorded.
        - Remaining time spent work independently/in small groups on open bugs
        - Zoom breakout rooms provided for people that want to work together
        - [Need to check] useR! conference chat platform provided for people that want to chat [else we can use R-Devel Slack]
            - Maybe better on R-Devel Slack as then not restricted to people registered to the conference.
            - Publicise both in useR! and beyond.
        - Separate GitHub repo used to track progress on bugs. This will allow us to see who is working on what, avoiding duplicated work. It will also give a place to discuss issues without unnecessary chat on Bugzilla (and means people don't need a Bugzilla account to contribute).
            - This requires a GitHub account though. 
            - Could use GitHub for testing though https://github.com/r-devel/r-svn. Gabe could write basic instructions. But takes some time: 1.5 hours.
            - GitHub better than Bugzilla to avoid sending unnecessary emails to R Core or needing an account
            - Not expecting everyone to be able to build R and run make check
            - Focus on checking bugs are still an issue and diagnosing issue.
            - RStudio server with checkout of R-devel?
            - use rocker or windows binary to do triage
    - Please sign up for a session on Google sheet, so we can see who can help when: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gdisa5R93EWpXh_mutWezByIRcE_dmm_OnYS-fZOfZ4/edit#gid=0v
    - Needed:
        - R Core co-tutor for sessions 1-3
        - Other co-tutor for session 2 (Gabe Becker will co-tutor in sessions 1 & 3)
            - could we produce edited version of tutorial?
        - People to prepare Welcome to Bug BBQ intro talk/video
        - People to prepare event page
        - People to prepare GitHub repo
        - People to commit to attending and facilitating
            - Will help to be familiar with open bugs prior to event
        - Triagers to help R Core flag bugs during June. Suggested flags: NEEDSREPREX, CHECKINRDEVEL, NEEDSDIAGNOSIS, PATCHWANTED. HELPWANTED is used but where a lot of work is needed. These tags need to be set up in Bugzilla - need to contact Simon Urbanek for this.
            - Will they be used in the long run?
            - Martin once suggested to have a triage group, there is an issue to show how to enable that on Bugzilla: https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/19. Such people could add these tags. Close duplicates. 
            - Exclude WISHLIST bugs
            - Bugs with no comments are suitable but could have been left as they are difficult (check date!)
            - We could add link to Bugzilla with filtered list of bugs, e.g.  https://bugs.r-project.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=CONFIRMED&bug_status=VERIFIED&component=Accuracy&component=Add-ons&component=Analyses&component=Documentation&component=Graphics&component=I%2FO&component=Installation&component=Language&component=Low-level&component=Mac%20GUI%20%2F%20Mac%20specific&component=Misc&component=Models&component=S4methods&component=Startup&component=System-specific&component=Translations&component=Windows%20GUI%20%2F%20Window%20specific&product=R&query_format=advanced&resolution
        - Enterprise Zoom account to host

3. Collaboration Campfires (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/11)
    - Update on April event
        - Explored status of translations, will create blog post based on summaries.
    - Plans for May event
        - Contacted translation team leads
            - 3 inactive: prospective maintainer not contactable or no longer available and team never submitted a translation
            - 2 prospective: active maintainer but not yet submitted a translation (Hungarian and Portuguese)
            - 7 known active maintainers, but only 3 of these have submitted updates in 2021 or 2022 (more volunteers needed, or need support for right-to-left languages)
            - 3 presumed active maintainers: did not respond but have submitted updates in 2021 or 2022 
            - 5 teams where new maintainer is needed (current maintainer wants to pass on, or did not respond and have not updated in 2021 or 2022)
        - Appsilon encouraged employees to attend in place of their weekly tech talk.

4. Google Season of Docs (GSoD) (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/11) 
    - Proposal was accepted: https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2022/wiki/GSOD-2022-Proposal.
    
5. Google Summer of Code (GSoC) (https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2022) [Heather Turner]
    - Two projects earmarked for spots:
        - https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2022/wiki/Converting-past-R-Journal-articles-to-HTML
        - https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2022/wiki/Track-R-Translations-Status
        
      Should find out by May 20 if funded.

6. AOB / Next steps
    - Next meeting: Friday 17 June, 15:00 UTC.
