# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2022-11-18

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**:  Heather Turner, Bettina Grün  
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:    
**MiR**:    
**R-Ladies**:    
**R User Groups**:  Elio Campitelli  
**Forwards**:   
**General R community**: Gabe Becker, Gergely Daróczi     
**Latin R**:

## Agenda

- Welcome

- Translation hackathon (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/36)
    - Plans for AsiaR hackathon: HT will try to follow up to see if still possible in December, else will push in to next year.
    
- Office hours (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/32)
    - Session notes: https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/blob/main/office_hours/
    - 8 people at EMEA/APAC one, from the UK and several African countries. Briefly looked at Bugzilla and Weblate. Debugged an open bug together - confirmed still and issue and identified cause.
    - Only facilitators at AMER one, but we used the time to report back on bug from session 1 and started looking at a related bug
    - *All* of the attendees from the first session came from LinkedIn (R Foundation account) - we should use this more! 3 people also said they would attend the AMER session but were no-shows (Kenya, Brazil, India).
    - Should we use Meetup? Perhaps join R Consortium Meetup Pro? Perhaps if we decide to continue longer term.
    - Next time: 
        - Try using Zoom registration instead (might help to get it in people's diaries, gives an idea of uptake). 
        - Try to remember to send out reminder on Slack, Twitter & LinkedIn ~1 hour before
        - Zoom in when screen sharing!
        - Give more of an intro (assume completely new)
        - Point to next steps at the end (Slack, Bugzilla account, R Dev Guide)
    - HT has sent poll to Elin Waring and GB to find a time for Americas Office hour in December.
    - Keep trying at least till January and then review how it's going.

- Google season of docs (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/31)
    - Official writing period ends November 15
    - Work so far: Lluís Revilla Sancho has been working on adding instructions on how to install R from source on Windows and Linux. Saranjeet Kaur Bhogal has been working on adding a new introduction to the guide and a chapter on tests in R, as well as addressing some smaller outstanding issues from the first version.
    - What is the overlap with the R-admin manual? Designed more as a quick start guide for people that want to fix a bug, create a patch and test it locally. Recommending a single approach (per OS) vs all possible variations.
    - Would it help to have a Linux container that has everything ready for them to build R? Could help to avoid pain points that may not be relevant to the objective of fixing a bug. Rocker-devel should work almost out of the box. Would need to add checkout of svn sources. Maybe VirtualBox is easier for Windows users vs Docker. Possible GSoC project? Could also be useful for Macs. Should check with Simon Urbanek on best approaches.
    - Eventually would help to build R from source, but perhaps not what you would recommend if you were mentoring a novice contributor as you want them to get satisfaction of contributing rather than get frustrated with system admin.
    - What about review? We'll be reviewing status of the project and tidying up PRs/issues in the next couple of weeks then can ask for wider community to review the new sections. Should have some funding left that could be used for a small amount of work in response to these reviews - but may need to find new technical writer. Otherwise will need to maintain as a group.
    - Will also have end-of-project meeting that we can open up to anyone interested and/or record for people to watch.

- R Project Developer Sprint: 
    - Tentative plans for 3 day in-person event at Warwick University, UK. Funding is available for ~40 people to attend, to include R Core members, some invited contributors and some self-nominated folk. May include some talks, some collaborative working, perhaps some training/mentoring for novice contributors. Will aim to have some parts hybrid for others to join in. Very early plans but likely dates in w/b Sep 4 so keep the time free if you can!

- Code of conduct (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/34)
    - No work on this in past month - Martyn Plummer, Robert Gentleman, Lluís Revilla Sancho and HT plan to work on this, but need to find time to get started.
    - Was discussed at R Core meeting in Vienna as important to enagage with funding agencies etc.
    - Lots of material to work from e.g. CoC from useR!, rOpenSci, Bioconductor, Python Foundation, etc.

- Weblate/translation
    - GD has been travelling so not so active this past month
    - But still a lot of activity on Weblate, so GD will prepare a new patch with the latest changes to send to ML.
     
- AOB / Next steps
    - Next meeting: no meeting in December, meet again in January.
