# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2022-04-08

## Present

**R Core**:
**Bioconductor Core**: Marcel Ramos
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner, Bettina Gr√ºn
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**: 
**MiR**: 
**R-Ladies**: 
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**: Gabriel Becker

## Agenda

1. Welcome/News

2. Outreachy internships (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/15, https://www.outreachy.org/) [Heather Turner]
    - HT: Our application on behalf of the R project was rejected for a number of reasons: 
        - The R Project's status as a GNU project given Richard Stallman's position on the FSF. (Their proposal: remove R from list of GNU sofware and publish a statement)
        - Lack of a project-wide code of conduct. (Their proposal: adopt a standard CoC such as the Contributor Covenant, or a more detailed one like the Python Software Foundation. Create a CoC committee that applies to the core R project issue tracker, code repositories, and other communication mediums.)
        - Historical interpretations of the GPL that might differ from standard copyleft policy in the community. (No proposal here).
    - BG: Should collect these issues, in particular regarding code of conduct, as evidence for need of this (add to long-standing issue on repo). May help to bring it in further down the road (similar to case for R Foundation in the first place).
    - HT: One project re-directed to GSoC (see below). Potential for second project on creating a translations dashboard to also be redirected, not sure if there is time left for mentors to propose it now.
    - HT: Potential for R Foundation funded project on bug triage (not suited to GSoC as not a defined project). GB: open to mentoring, but recruitment process might be a big task. Unlike Outreachy/GSoC, it would not be a known thing. BG: maybe "harvest" from GSoC applicants. Advertise additional opportunities there and redirect people. But need to fit in with time frame. GB: potential for Michael Lawrence to be a "light touch" R core mentor. HT: too late for GSoC - contributor applications due Apr 19. GB: no strong preference over time of year. HT: perhaps aim for Southern hemisphere summer. GB: gives longer to prepare.
    - HT: Bioconductor may apply independently to Outreachy next time.

3. Google Summer of Code (GSoC) (https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2022) [Heather Turner]
    - HT and Di Cook plan to mentor project: https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2022/wiki/Converting-past-R-Journal-articles-to-HTML. We have a potential student.

4. Google Season of Docs (GSoD) (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/11) 
    - Proposal has been submitted: https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2022/wiki/GSOD-2022-Proposal. We have a steering committee in place and good candidates for the technical writers and the project manager roles. Should find out by April 14.

5. Collaboration Campfires (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/11) [Heather Turner]
    - Update on March event: went well, had ~15 attendees.
    - Carpentries-style lesson based on February and March sessions started in the Hack Day at Collaborations Workshop 2022: https://github.com/r-devel/r-bug-tracking-lesson, https://contributor.r-project.org/r-bug-tracking-lesson/. Work in progress.
    - Plans for April event: will be switching to explore R's process for localization.
        - Relates to next point

6. Translation https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/28
    - HT: Need to review status of translations - any existing code to do this?
    - HT: Need to review status of translations teams
    - MR: Has been using translation in BiocManager.
    - GB: Should translation community manager actually be a paid job? Funded by R Foundation or R Consortium. Similar to e.g. The Carpentries where you have small number of paid staff organizing volunteers. BG: Is translation so important these days, e.g. in Austria, English widespread e.g. from Masters level. HT: Not true globally. GB: Could reach out to LatinR.
    - GB: Will we run the tutorials again? Willing to do again. Michael Lawrence/Luke Tierney/Martin Maechler potential could co-tutor.

7. Bug Barbecue (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/18)
    - Thursday/Friday June 23/24:
        - Session 1 (APAC):
        Thursday 20:00-24:00 UTC-5 (Friday 09:00 - 13:00 in Tokyo, Thursday 18:00 - 22:00 in San Francisco)
        - Session 2 (EMEA):
        Friday 04:00-08:00 UTC-5 (Friday 09:00 - 13:00 in Accra, Friday 14:30 - 18:30 in New Delhi)
        - Session 3 (AMER):
        Friday 11:00-15:00 UTC-5 (Friday 09:00 - 13:00 in San Francisco, Friday 19:00 - 23:00 in Nairobi)

        See here for most timezones:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gdisa5R93EWpXh_mutWezByIRcE_dmm_OnYS-fZOfZ4/edit#gid=0v
    - HT: Please sign up for a session on Google sheet, so we can see who can help when
    - GB could potentially re-run Contributing to R tutorial in Session 1 and/or 3 for Bug Barbecue? Then potentially someone else could present forked/pared down version for Session 2.
        - Run for ~1.5 hours, then focus on actual bugs for second 1.5 hours.
    - rOpenSci unconf a good model to follow:
        - Pitches. Then break out into groups.
        - Can we do the same with bugs?
        - How to update from one session to the next?
        - Ask R Core to flag bugs on easier side in 2-3 weeks before event (and focus on bigger issues instead).
    - TODO
        - How to organise? Create repo with issues so they can be discussed off Bugzilla and people can indicate if they're working on them? Or the chat platform useR! are using?
        - Should we encourage R core/R triagers to add keywords to issues (who has permissions?) HELPWANTED, others?
            - NEEDSREPREX
        - (Recorded) Intro talk to orientate people?
        - Do we want a translations contribution stream? Be open to translation teams piggy-backing on the event.
        - Do we want a documentation contribution stream? https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2022/issues/6

8. Communication (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/14)
    - R Weekly is live again, so we can report back on meetings there.

9. AOB / Next steps
    - Promoting: highlight specific issues that will be discussed. Bug BBQ next time!
    - Next meeting: Tuesday 17 May, 18:30 UTC.
