# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2023-03-24

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence   
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**:  Heather Turner   
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**: Trang Le   
**R User Groups**:   
**Forwards**:   
**General R community**: Gabriel Becker, LluÃ­s Revilla, Gergely Daroczi    
**Latin R**:
**Africa R**:  

## Agenda

- Welcome
    - No RCWG business was discussed at the meeting on 2023-03-24 as only Heather Turner and Michael Lawrence were present, so they briefly discussed other business and stopped early. 

- Code of conduct (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/34)
    - Looking for 3 (minimum) volunteers to join a RCWG code of conduct team
        - Commit to 1 year
        - Expect load to be quite light (no issues on Slack so far)
    - Team will cover 
        - RCWG repositories that adopt the CoC, starting with R Dev Guide
        - R Contributors Slack
        - RCWG meetings, Office Hours
    - Base on existing CoC
        - useR! knowledgebase: https://rconf.gitlab.io/userknowledgebase/main/knowledgebase-code-of-conduct.html
        - Slack: https://contributor.r-project.org/slack
    - What would be reporting mechanism and enforcement mechanisms? E.g. if issue in Slack does it affect GitHub too. Maybe be hard to link people.
        - Bioconductor treat each platform as separate: more pragmatic.
    - Will team members act independently or do they need to meet to decide on action?
        - Bioconductor: notify that looking into it, then meet to decide what to do. Meeting can be some time (months) after event.
    - GB: volunteers to be a team member. HT: too. Pao Corrales has volunteered to help set things up.
    - GB: could this pool across R Consortium Working Groups?
    - ML: This is R Foundation working group. Could come under Forwards umbrella or R-Devel GitHub org (ask Jeroen).
    - LR: Could have representative from other CoC committee on this.
    - Also translation working group could be covered (ask Mike Chirico).
    - GB: will ask Joe Rickert (R Consortium).
    - Maybe open channel on Slack to discuss.

- Translation via Weblate (https://translate.rx.studio/)
     - Q1 update: >1000 message translations across 9 languages, including several new: Bengali, Hindi, Nepali.
         - Gergely has prepared new patch.
     - Gergely has started Wiki page which documents how to create patch, how weblate server is configured etc.
     - Might need to formalize process around updating .pot files.
         - With reminders to translators to update.
         - Maybe quarterly updates?
         - Might want to shift weblate updates so most translations get into next version of R (this time Q1 2023 will not be added to R till 2024)
         - Weblate continually pulls updates from R.
         - Might be able to surface new English messages that need translation.
     - Yearly report? 
     - Also have GSoC translation dashboard. Check weblate capabilities (https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/devel/reporting.html)
     - Trying to redirect people to weblate, so only have to deal with one patch.
     - How best to organize review:
        - Peer review (https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/workflows.html#peer-review)
            - Suggest a new translation.
            - Wait for peer to vote for translation or suggest an alternative.
            - Translation only added to .po file once approved
            
          Translations cannot be added without at least one other person giving the okay, so translation teams would need at least two people.
        - Dedicated reviewers
           - Add a new translation -> added straight to .po file, marked in weblate as "waiting review"
           - Add (all) users as reviewers -> anyone can review translations and mark in webalte as "approved"

          Could have single translator for a language, no delay for peer review. But no checking before committed to R-devel.
          
        - Note we should not use "Needs editing" to mark as for review - this marks translations as "fuzzy", implying they are known to be somewhat wrong.
        - ML: would be good to have some vetting/training of new translator before they are "let loose". E.g. translate directly, don't interpret.
        - LR: can have dictionary to co-ordinate.
        - GD: weblate will automatically create glossary
        - GD: maybe new user role that can only suggest translation to start with, then another user can approve.
        - GB: can we automatically flag words?
        - ML: probably not worth it. But perhaps spot check with automatic translation.
        - GB: can we automatically add machine translation and then mark for review? GD: not much advantage.
        - Make people reviewers on request, where teams want to do that. Emphasis on buddying up.

- useR! 2023 Bridging Events
    - Tentative: 21 July, Basel; 13-14 July, San Francisco; ?? Shanghai
    - Plan Bug BBQ for 20 July?
        - Online as last year.
        - Half-day before/after one or two events, possibly hybrid.
        - GB: unsure of overlap between this and R Project Sprint as hard to find beginner bugs.
        - ML: it is a lot of work to set up, for realtively small gain - contributions from last year most from R Core members/experienced contributors, some of which would have happened anyway.
        - HT: May be better to concentrate on Sprint this year and reconsider for useR! 2024.
    - Could still run Contributing to R tutorial as stand alone event. GB willing to run again + R Core member. Already "non-live" bugs, so not much prep.
    - Ideal would be for R Core/experienced contributors to deliberately leave suitable issues as good first issues, mark as go along, so less effort to identify such bugs.
    - Plan AsiaR translatathon around Shanghai event? (c.f. https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/36)
        - Tie in with BiocAsia?

- Office hours (https://github.com/r-devel/rcontribution/issues/32)
    - March: 2 people at EMEA/APAC, 6 at AMER
    - April: 11 at EMEA/APAC, 10 at AMER
    - Generally picking up and expect to be more active in run-up to the Developer Sprint.

- C book club (https://github.com/r-devel/c-book-club)
    - Cohort 1 (definite): 1-2pm BST 
    - Cohort 2 (tentative): 7-8pm PDT. Need Zoom (or similar) host.

- Google season of docs/R Development Guide
    - Continuing from GSoD 2022
    - Issues for discussion:
        - R's Coding Style: https://github.com/r-devel/rdevguide/issues/133.
  
- Google summer of code 2023
    - Several projects instigated by RCWG:
        - https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2023/wiki/Containerized-Development-Environments-for-R
        - https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2023/wiki/Converting-R-Journal-latex-documents-to-Rmarkdown-with-texor
        - https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2023/wiki/Track-R-Translation-Status (need co-mentor?)
            - GB: can co-mentor; GD can help look into Weblate API.
    - Projects will be selected May 4 (mentor sign-up by Apr 20).

- R Project Developer Sprint: 
    - ~ 50 participants expected.
     
- AOB / Next steps
    - Next meeting: Friday, May 19, 2023, 14:00-15:00 UTC
