# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2023-11-24

## Present

**R Core**:    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner   
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**:   
**RainbowR**:   
**Forwards**:   
**Latin R**:   
**Africa R**:
**Asia R**:
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**: Llu√≠s Revilla  

## Agenda

- Welcome

### Main items

- Translations
    - Presentations on translation guidelines/Weblate (https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/issues/43)
        - Heather Turner prseented at the Spanish R Users conference in Barcelona (https://hturner.github.io/IIConferenceOfR/). Positive reaction to Catalan being added as a language!
    - R Consortium support for project developing prototype for multilingual documentation in R packages: https://github.com/eliocamp/rhelpi18n-grant-proposal/blob/main/isc-proposal.pdf
        - Proposal by Elio Campitelli and Renata Hirota. A follow-on from discussions at R Project Sprint 2023 doing some initial work on implementing localization for package help pages. 
    - Inviting further translation team leaders
    - Patch for R Core

- Discussion about CRAN messages
    - LR has been helping with patches to CRAN messages. Would be nice to have a CRAN NEWS files to track newsworthy changes to CRAN processes.

- CZI EOSS application (https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/essential-open-source-software-for-science/)
    - Did not get past first stage
    
- Dev Day at [useR! 2024](https://user2024.r-project.org/)
    - Potential venues for a dev day on the Friday after the main conference. Estimated cost <2000 EUR for ~50 people potentially covered useR! budget.
    - Program committee have agreed that we could have two tutorials similar to what we did at useR! 2021.

- Dev Day at posit::conf(2024)
    - Reached out to Jenny Bryan and Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel who are on the organizing team for posit::conf. Keen to run something alongside a tidyverse dev day that would separate from the main conference at another venue.
    - Michael Lawrence should be able to go and potentially Thomas Lumley too.

- Book clubs
    - Interest to run another C Book Club.
    - Potential to run a book club/study group around the dev guide. Use as a way of reviewing and contributing back to the guide, e.g. adding examples.

- Follow-up activities from the R Project sprint (needs issue?)
    - (Discussed last time: something within UK community?)
    - NLME working group
        - Way of trying to work through nlme bugs. Might try to coordinate through a separate GitHub repo
        - Could investigate mirroring NLME repo in order to run reverse dependency checks using Posit's package builds for linux to save time.
        - [RHub2](https://github.com/r-hub/rhub2) is working on Docker images for different OS, R-versions with all dependencies so can run the package tests yourself rather than send to R-Hub service.
    - Bugs spreadsheet - annotated list of bugs: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bhfPIJQXeKpydigMH79FKIkdHO9NxlBSB_bTRoCFnPY/edit#gid=0
        - Potentially can keep up-to-date to help with triaging bugs and sharing information

- Instructions to build R on the Mac
    - Pending. HT and EK reviewed and updated draft (https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/blob/main/working_documents/install_r_macos.md, generated from .Rmd in same directory), still some issues to follow up
        - Problems building recommended packages.
        - Issues raised on Slack regarding building on older (Intel) Macs
        - Should open as a PR in the meantime.

- News for R Journal article
 
- AOB

### Next meeting

- No meeting in December
- Friday, January 19, 2024, 15:00-16:00 UTC
