# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2023-08-15

## Present

**R Core**:    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**:   
**RainbowR**:   
**Forwards**:   
**Latin R**: Elio Campitelli, Pao Corrales   
**Africa R**:
**Asia R**:
**R User Groups**: Gergely Daroczi (Hungarian RUG)  
**General R community**: Gabe Becker

## Agenda

- Welcome

### Main items

- R Project Developer Sprint
    - Discussion of ideas put forward so far
        - Existing projects (on sprint website/GitHub Proposals channel)
            - Adding Alpha Masks to the Quartz Graphics Device (Paul Murrell)
            - Addressing Bugs in nlme (Heather Turner & Ben Bolker)
            - Dendrapply Refactor (Aidan Lakshman)
            - Improving Documentation (Elio Campitelli)
                - Email sent to R-devel mailing list about how to submit related patches
            - Improvements to weblate (Gergely Daróczi)
        - Projects in pipeline (on GitHub Ideas channel/Discussions, expect to be converted to prject)
            - Project on package installation (Gabe Becker)
                - Loading packages that are installed already. Writing patch at sprint.
                - Improving installation from local tarballs (get dependencies from CRAN etc). May have patch ready for testing.
                - Advanced R programming only (no C). Plus testing.
                - Not so much beneficial cross talk with package related issues, though could be in same room
            - Project on sample.int (Ahmadou Dicko) Initial discussion: https://github.com/r-devel/r-project-sprint-2023/discussions/1#discussioncomment-6329518 related to paper: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013722000673
                - Unequal probability sampling without replacement
                - Potential issue here with backward compatability
                - Could be differences in opinion on what is correct here
                - More likely to be saved for a major release (R 5.0.0)
            - Mac GUI translation (Simon Urbanek - needs someone else to write up)
        - Projects in planning/Themes rather than specific projects
            - Vignette related issues (discussion started by Henrik Bengtsson)
                - Specific proposal by Henrik on collating package vignettes lacks support (though needs further discussion)
                - Still potential to convert to project focused on vignette related bug reports/issues, but no one to lead this.
            - Package related issues (discussion started by Jeroen Ooms). Likely to start with discussion at start of sprint to decide what to work on. Potential topics: 
                - Standardizing the URL format for Linux binary packages (https://github.com/r-devel/r-project-sprint-2023/discussions/20). More of a policy discussion, potentially an R Core vote needed versus support from one or two specific R Core members. Outcome might be a proposal for R Core to consider - gets sent to R core mailing list to vote on.
                - Support for internationalization of help pages. Outcome might be a proposal for R Core to consider - gets sent to R core mailing list to vote on.
                - Documentation and tooling to reproduce CRAN builds. Need to find out status of current efforts e.g. by Gabor Csardi. Gabe will reach out to see what he find out.
                - WebAssembly (Wasm) binaries for R packages. Perhaps the outcome would be a prototype that might be adopted by R Core, or some machinery added to install such binaries.
            - Improve efficiency of read.csv and write.csv (Toby Dylan Hocking): https://github.com/r-devel/r-project-sprint-2023/discussions/7
                - Could be opportunity for analysis: why O(n^2) instead of O(n) (or whatever)
            - Accessibility project (Jonathan Godfrey)
            - Windows GUI translation 
            - Translation, with  (María Nanton and Binod Bogati)
                - Specific targets for Hindi, Japanese, Spanish, possibly Arabic
                - Support for Right-to-Left languages 
                - Guidelines for translators
                - Use of glossary
                
            
    - Discussion of any practical issues

- R Development Container 
    - Aiming for version 2 to be ready in time for the sprint
        - Support for multiple builds of R
        - Ability to switch between R versions
        - More workflows documented

- Instructions to build R on the Mac:
    - https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/blob/main/working_documents/install_r_macos.md
    - Hope to add to R Dev Guide after further testing


- R Translation Dashboard 
    - Some languages seem to have different "denominator", i.e. number of things to be translated
    - May come into improvements to weblate at sprint
    - Possibly some "left-overs" to work on at the sprint.
 
- AOB 
    - R-Contribution-WG@r-project.org mailing list set up, plan to use from now on vs contact list managed by Forwards.

### Next meeting

- Friday, September 15, 2023, 14:00-15:00 UTC
