# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2023-09-15

## Present

**R Core**:    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner   
**R Consortium Diversity & Inclusion Group**:   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**:   Shannon Pileggi   
**RainbowR**:   
**Forwards**:   
**Latin R**:   
**Africa R**:
**Asia R**:
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**: Gabriel Becker, Ivan Krylov   

## Agenda

- Welcome

### Main items

- Translations
    - Translations subsite (https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/issues/46)
        - Translations wiki moved to https://contributor.r-project.org/translations/
    - Presentations on translation guidelines/Weblate (https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/issues/43)
        - LatinR Talk (María Nanton and Pao Corrales) and translation space
            - Further work on Spanish guidelines in preparation. Also translating to Spanish.
        - Brazilian Portuguese group have created a presentation https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uqsPo715R_r0u6wPyC3EBbUVkri0qjf7SV5Y-zTfTZ0/edit#slide=id.gc6f9e470d_0_0. 
        - Keep in mind for posit::conf next year. Doing 1 day workshop + 2 days of conference next year, so more space for satellite events - could have some sort of contributor event. Will be in Seattle in August. Would have an idea who will be there 4-6 months out. Jenny Bryan and Mine Çetinkaya Rundel.
        - Other in pipeline?
    - Credit for translators
        - Michael Lawrence is happy to add section in main NEWS file. Will base it on summary from Gergely Daróczi/Michael Chirico when they create the patch.

- CZI EOSS application (https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/essential-open-source-software-for-science/)
    - HT submitted a letter of intent to fund a second R Project Sprint at Warwick and some developer/community manager time to sustain the community in between times. Exploring ideas of what might work regarding the latter, in particular ways to support people outside of Warwick.
    - 2 weeks wait to find out if we can submit full proposal, if we get to the next round there is a month to prepare the full proposal. So will need to communicate outside RCWG meetings on progress. 

- Follow-up activities from the R Project sprint (needs issue?)
    - Discussed last time: some contributor meeting within the UK community? No progress on this yet.
    - From R Contributor Office Hour: proposal to have focused sessions on nlme
        - Martyn Plummer suggested started a working group (that ties in with RCWG meetings/office hours to avoid additional meetings). Initial objective would be to work through nlme bugs: identifying a couple per month for people to look at asynchronously, but knowing that others plan to work on them.

- Instructions to build R on the Mac
    - Pending. HT wrote a draft before the sprint. Ella Kaye and George Stagg worked through and have some updates to make. HT and EK plan to meet up and prepare a PR for the Dev Guide.
        - Run past Simon Urbanek as well. If anything needs updating in R-admin, make sure updated as well.

- News for R Journal article
    - Need to summarise work that was done at the sprint (and possibly after).
    - HT planning to work on this in the next few weeks. Will share draft with participants.
    - Helpful if people can make sure their own work is summarised on the R Project Spint repo (issues closed if complete!) and possibly summarise work of larger groups they were involved in.
    - Also helpful to know any work outstanding that we can recommend to people as good issues to work on.

### Next meeting

- Friday, November 24, 2023, 15:00-16:00 UTC
    - N.B. One week later than usual
