# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2024-01-19

## Present

**R Core**:    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**: Shannon Pileggi  
**RainbowR**:   
**Forwards**:   
**Latin R**:   
**Africa R**:
**Asia R**:
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**: Llu√≠s Revilla, Gergely Daroczi, Aidan Lakshman 

## Agenda

- Welcome

### Main items

- Translations
    - Presentations on translation guidelines/Weblate (https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/issues/43)
        - posit::conf have just opened their call for abstracts - may not be such a good fit.
        - Would be good to have a talk/poster at useR! 
            - HT: can email people involved in translation at the sprint. Remote option may be more feasible. Lightning talk/poster may also be a good option - may be able to present this alongside "main" talk.
        - ConectaR 2024: Spanish-speaking conference
        - Otherwise can focus on online events, e.g. R-Ladies Remote, R Consortium webinar.
    - Inviting further translation team leaders
        - GD: willing to draft email and reach out to people
    - Patch for R Core
        - This is with Michael Chirico now. GD will chase up.
    
- Dev Days
    - [useR! 2024](https://user2024.r-project.org/). Friday 12 July, probably at the University of Salzburg - getting quotes for costs.
        - R-Ladies Chapter has just opened in Salzburg, might be good contact.
        - Plan for a whole day.
        - Have reserved space for contributor/translation tutorials on the Monday. HT: need to follow up with potential tutors.
    - posit::conf(2024). Possibly Thursday 15 August.

- C Study Group (https://contributor.r-project.org/events/c-study-group-2024/)
   - Started in January, seems to be going well so far.

- Follow-up activities from the R Project sprint (needs issue?)
    - Possibility to arrange some activities in connection with UK events.
    - NLME working group
        - HT: Initial look at setting up GitHub mirror of nlme repo with GitHub Action to do reverse dependency checks - not simple, but may be feasible!
    - Bugs spreadsheet - annotated list of bugs: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bhfPIJQXeKpydigMH79FKIkdHO9NxlBSB_bTRoCFnPY/edit#gid=0
        - Potentially can keep up-to-date to help with triaging bugs and sharing information

- Instructions to build R on the Mac
    - Chipping away at this: https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/blob/main/working_documents/install_r_macos.md

- GSoC
    - Possible follow on for the R Dev Container. E.g. extending to use RStudio vs VS Code.
    - Work on Luke's issues from sprint. HT will follow up on possible mentor. 
    - HT: mention on Slack + mailing list.

- GSoD 
    - Could translation work be done through this?
    - Issues that we considered before: https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2022/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed. See also: https://translation.r-project.org/.
    - HT: mention on Slack + mailing list.

- News for R Journal article
    - Now published: https://journal.r-project.org/news/RJ-2023-3-sprint/
 
- AOB
    - Office hours. Still getting a few people coming along to each.
    - Might be helpful to look into hosting the R project mailing list.
    - Connect with CRAN repositories working group re useR! Dev Day.

### Next meeting

- Tuesday, February 20, 2024, 19:30-20:30 UTC
