# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2024-02-20

[Zoom Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/hY3OBGi8pipZRCtk7Pt8DHEm3VqGFy-SeOJkh31oixtgsHdxdVsrPILZW0TkqSk8.FWyeBw2NU4C-xYds) (recording may no longer be available after a couple of months!)

## Present

**R Core**: Michael Lawrence    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**:  Heather Turner  
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**: Shannon Pileggi  
**RainbowR**:   
**Forwards**:   
**Latin R**:   
**Africa R**:   
**Asia R**:   
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**:   Abhishek Ulayil, Aidan Lakshman, Gabriel Becker, Atharva Shirdhankar

## Agenda

- Welcome
- Recording meetings. Should we do this? Automatically? Where to share?
    - R Repositories WG records meetings e.g. https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/blob/main/minutes/2024-02-12_Minutes.md
    - People happy for meetings to be recorded. Will add link to minutes, however we have limited space on our Zoom account, so likely that old recordings will have to be replaced by new recordings, meaning the links may only work for the most recent 2 or 3 meetings.

### Main items

- Translations
    - Presentations on translation guidelines/Weblate (https://github.com/r-devel/rcwg/issues/43)
        - Binod Jung Bogati has offered to submit a talk, draft abstract here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IfQeD7HR3axErYbF2V9Nva0N1lH7eFcA852tLY5U-RM/edit#heading=h.g2yk23q3el0
    - Inviting further translation team leaders
        - Gergely Daróczi offered to work on this at last RCWG meeting (not present to report back).
        - ML has not been receiving many translations outside the Weblate community. 
    - Patch for R Core
        - Still being prepared.   
    
- Dev Days
    - [useR! 2024](https://user2024.r-project.org/), Friday 12 July.
        - Venue now booked at University of Salzburg for 50 people.
        - How to organize selection process for participants? 
            - Probably need application form to balance skills and experience levels as for sprint.
            - People applying for useR! scholarships need to apply by 17 March, will be notified by 3 April. Set deadline for 22 March and notify by 5 April?
            - Could select with reserve list to replace people that can't secure funding/visas.
            - Shannon can help to review form
            - Should we upweight or downweight people that came to the sprint? Want to develop people rather than always starting from scratch, so upweight.
            - Add as question to the form.
    - posit::conf(2024). 
        - Likely Thursday 15 August alongside Tidyverse Dev Day, Jenny Bryan is following up with Fred Hutch on potential venue.
        - Malcom Barrett maybe available to help organize R Dev Day.
        - How integrated could it be? Maybe combine, sharing ideas on same board? Start with same pool of people? Maybe use same process for collaboration, e.g. GitHub repo for curating issues?
    - Potential to host R Dev Days elsewhere, e.g. at Pittsburgh where Aidan is based. Can keep in mind, but the advantage of linking to a conf is that people are travelling there already and so easier to get travel support from employer/research funding/conference scholarship.

- useR! tutorials
    - Gabe Becker and Martin Maechler/Heather Turner will re-run Contribution to R tutorial, probably in the morning. Presence of Martin depends on timing of R Core meetings. ML: R Core meeting currently being planned for that day.
    - Gergely Daróczi will run Translating R tutorial in the afternoon. Will update previous tutorial to also discuss Weblate. Looking for co-tutor(s) to support as ML will be in R Core meeting.
    - Organizers have asked us to submit proposal via https://sessionize.com/user-2024/dashboard, this could be based on the ones from useR! 2021 (https://contributor.r-project.org/tutorials/). This is to facilitate organization, the tutorials will be automatically selected.

- Instructions to build R on the Mac
   - Still work in progress. Chapter in Dev Guide needs reorganizing before these can be added.

- GSoC
    - R Core related project: risk of patch not being accepted in the end. Better if we can choose from issue that has been proposed by R Core in the first place, but still not guarantee. This is is however a general caveat of GSoC projects.
    - Gabe happy to mentor with this caveat.
    - Heather will follow up to see if we can come up with a proposal. Will need another mentor to get it off the ground.
    - Heather also trying to get in contact with Ben Ubah to see if there is any scope for project doing further work on translations dashboard.
    - There is also potential for a further project related to the R Dev Container, which Atharva has been continuing to work on, see his notes at the end of the agenda.
         - Rocker images unlikely to have all the tools need to build R. Need to explore further if we can get RStudio front end to work smoothly. Possibly could use the terminal in VSCode to (re)build R then launch RStudio instead of R Terminal in VSCode.
         - Nice to have dark and light them for docs, as well as updated CI workflow that automatically rebuilds docs and docker image to ensure everything is up-to-date.
- GSoD
   - Gabe and Heather also discussing some ideas here, but nothing definite to share yet.

- C Study Group (https://contributor.r-project.org/events/c-study-group-2024/)
    - ~15 participants at first two meetings, good discussions.
    
- Office Hours
    - Have had additional participants coming from C study group.
    - Feb Office Hours led to proposal to fix an old bug in persp() (yet to be reviewed) and opportunity to discuss progress on project prototyping [internationalisation of R help pages](https://github.com/eliocamp/rhelpi18n).
       - international   

- AOB
    - Heather has a clash for usual meeting time in April (Tuesday, April 16, 2024, 19:30-20:30 UTC). Can move to same time another day that week, any preference? Let Heather know.
    - Heather checked current meeting times with R Core members that have previously been to RCWG meetings - no requests to change, so will stick with current pattern.
    - Update from Abhishek on project coverting R Journal articles to HTML
       - Improving conversion of algorithm environments. Hopes to have update on tools in next couple of months.
     
### Next meeting

- Friday, March 15, 2024, 15:00 - 16:00 UTC (note daylight savings US but not UK, so e.g. 08:00 PT vs 07:00 PT)


### r-dev-env update(Atharva S)
**1. docs redesign**
- I've redesigned the docs for r-dev-env and added couple of new guides too.
- The new docs has 'copy to clipboard' button inside the code block itself earlier it was below code block.

Updated Docs design with dark and light theme
![screenshot_from_2024-02-11_17-41-10_720](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/S1awLVM3p.png)
![screenshot_from_2024-02-11_17-39-32_720](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/B1a_84GhT.png)
![screenshot_from_2024-02-11_17-40-38_720](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/HkMFUNMn6.png)

**2. updated actions workflow**
- Earlier the actions for rebuilding docs and docker image doesn't seem to work even after Merging PR. I have updated that part and also written actions workflow to schedule and rebuild docker image so that it can have latest R verion inside it.
- https://github.com/r-devel/r-dev-env/tree/gh-actions-update

**3. R studio server**
- In response to r-dev-env issue number `41` created a demo rstudio server on branch rstudio.
- https://github.com/r-devel/r-dev-env/issues/41
- https://github.com/r-devel/r-dev-env/tree/r-studio




