# R Contribution Working Group Meeting 2024-04-18

[Zoom Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/Mijl467BcHcSMtR6H8kAHFLl9o31P6XllPwQ1lfBM7rqwNWIdzMKJFZhXkFO0dUD.i-Y0jscOsQHGv6Xg) (recording may no longer be available after a couple of months!)

## Present

**R Core**:    
**Bioconductor Core**:   
**R Foundation**: Heather Turner   
**MiR**:   
**R-Ladies**: Shannon Pileggi   
**RainbowR**:   
**Forwards**:   
**Latin R**:   
**Africa R**:   
**Asia R**:   
**R User Groups**:   
**General R community**: Gabriel Becker, Aidan Lakshman, Dave Slager  

## Agenda

- Welcome + start meeting recording.

### Main items

- Translations
    - Patch for R Core: Mike Chirico and Gergely Daróczi prepared a big patch ready for the release of R 4.4.0 next week. 
This includes a lot of work from R Project Sprint 2023, the LatinR hackathon and other contributions via Weblate.
Having fixed vary issues with this big patch, hope to be able to patch more regularly (~quarterly) in future, so updates might be included in patch releases. 
    
- Dev Days
    - [Day Day @ Imperial](https://pretix.eu/r-contributors/r-dev-day-imperial-2024/) (prior to London satRday), Friday April 26
        - Sponsorship from Jumping Rivers and Imperial RSE to cover catering
        - Have ~20 sign-ups. Had open registration as a more local event
        - No representation from R Core, but a few people that were at R Project Sprint and other experienced contributors that can help mentor others.
    - [Day Day @ PLUS](https://contributor.r-project.org/r-dev-day-plus-2024/) (post useR! 2024), Friday 12 July
        - Participants were selected to balance beginner/intermediate/advanced as at R Project Sprint.
        - Currently confirming participants, but currently expect ~36, including 4 from R Core (Paul Murrell, Luke Tierney, Martin Maechler, Sebastian Meyer)
        - A few beginners in reserve.
    - Dev Day @ Fred Hutch post posit::conf(2024), Thursday 15 August 
        - Running alongside [Tidyverse Dev Day](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2024/04/tdd-2024/)
        - Sponsorship from Posit to cover catering and any other venue costs
        - Only have 16 places for people to work on base R, so will fill these by invitation. Initial batch of invitations sent out.
        - Hope to have 2 people from R Core involved.
    - Plans for activities/preparations
        - Set up new R Dev Days repo
            - Move any relevant bugs across from Bug BBQ/Sprint Repo 
            - Add new ideas
            - Label ones for specific Dev Days. Between Dev Days can remove old labels, only leaving those where work will continue after the Dev Day. 
        - Have triaging group as a particular activity? I.e. as Tomas Kalibera described in his post https://blog.r-project.org/2019/10/09/r-can-use-your-help-reviewing-bug-reports/index.html
        - May want to "pre-register" for bugs, so people can quickly get started on the day.
        - Involvement of R Core - their time will be limited, so need to find tasks that can get started without their guidance.
          - Documentation might be a topic that doesn't need so much direct involvement.
        - Potential "side projects" e.g. internalisation of Rd files, if there are "R hooks" that we can get buy-in in advance from R Core.
        - Revising patches from the Sprint, or other work in progress particularly those involving R Dev Day participants. 
        Ask R Core members to review patches before the Dev Day, so that people can work on updating the patch at the Dev Day

- useR! tutorials
    - Gabe Becker and Heather Turner will re-run Contribution to R tutorial, probably in the morning.
        - Might need to plan a bit about how small groups will work.
        - Make sure to promote tutorial to R Dev Day participants.
        - Links on the repo may be good background for R Dev Day itself.
    - Gergely Daróczi will run Translating R tutorial online. Lluís Revilla Sancho and Binod Jung Bogati have offered to help.
        - Make sure doesn't overlap with Dev Day.

- [GSoC](https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2024/wiki/table-of-proposed-coding-projects) (Google Summer of Code)
    - Projects have not been selected yet. There are a few proposals relevant to this group, e.g. further work on the R Dev container
    
- [GSoD](https://github.com/rstats-gsod/gsod2024/wiki/Cookbook-style-documentation-for-CRAN-maintainers) (Google Season of Docs)
    - Proposed updated for documentation helping CRAN maintainers fix common issues.
    - Unfortunately not selected for GSoD, but plan to resubmit to R Consortium under their "Special Projects" grant scheme.

### Next meeting

- Friday, May 17, 2024, 14:00-15:00 UTC 
